Choose a humanoid that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be paralyzed for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make another Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the spell ends on the target.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional humanoid for each slot level above 2nd. The humanoids must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.
Holy Aura
8th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V, S, M (a tiny reliquary worth at least
1,000 gp containing a sacred relic, such as a scrap of cloth from a saint’s robe or a piece of parchment from a religious text) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Divine light washes out from you and coalesces in a soft radiance in a 30-foot radius around you. Creatures of your choice in that radius when you cast this spell shed dim light in a 5-foot radius and have advantage on all saving throws, and other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls against them until the spell ends. In addition, when a fiend or an undead hits an affected creature with a melee attack, the aura flashes with brilliant light. The attacker must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the spell ends.
Hunter’s Mark
1st-level divination
Casting Time: 1 bonus action Range: 90 feet Components: V Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour You choose a creature you can see within range and mystically mark it as your quarry. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra 1d6 damage to the target whenever you hit it with a weapon attack, and you have advantage on any Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival) check you make to find it. If the target drops to 0 hit points before this spell ends, you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn of yours to mark a new creature.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd or 4th level, you can maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. When you use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can

maintain your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.
Hypnotic Pattern
3rd-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 120 feet Components: S, M (a glowing stick of incense or a
crystal vial filled with phosphorescent material) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a twisting pattern of colors that weaves through the air inside a 30-foot cube within range. The pattern appears for a moment and vanishes. Each creature in the area who sees the pattern must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes charmed for the duration. While charmed by this spell, the creature is incapacitated and has a speed of 0.
The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes any damage or if someone else uses an action to shake the creature out of its stupor.
Ice Storm
4th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 300 feet Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dust and a few
drops of water) Duration: Instantaneous
A hail of rock-hard ice pounds to the ground in a 20- foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within range. Each creature in the cylinder must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 4d6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Hailstones turn the storm’s area of effect into difficult terrain until the end of your next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the bludgeoning damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 4th.
Identify
1st-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a pearl worth at least 100 gp
and an owl feather) Duration: Instantaneous
