Shield, +1, +2, or +3
Armor (shield), uncommon (+1), rare (+2), or very rare (+3)
While holding this shield, you have a bonus to AC determined by the shield’s rarity. This bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to AC.
Shield of Missile Attraction
Armor (shield), rare (requires attunement)
While holding this shield, you have resistance to damage from ranged weapon attacks.
Curse. This shield is cursed. Attuning to it curses you until you are targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic. Removing the shield fails to end the curse on you. Whenever a ranged weapon attack is made against a target within 10 feet of you, the curse causes you to become the target instead.
Slippers of Spider Climbing
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While you wear these light shoes, you can move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving your hands free. You have a climbing speed equal to your walking speed. However, the slippers don’t allow you to move this way on a slippery surface, such as one covered by ice or oil.
Sovereign Glue
Wondrous item, legendary
This viscous, milky-white substance can form a permanent adhesive bond between any two objects. It must be stored in a jar or flask that has been coated inside with oil of slipperiness. When found, a container contains 1d6 + 1 ounces.
One ounce of the glue can cover a 1-foot square surface. The glue takes 1 minute to set. Once it has done so, the bond it creates can be broken only by the application of universal solvent or oil of etherealness, or with a wish spell.
Spell Scroll
Scroll, varies
A spell scroll bears the words of a single spell, written in a mystical cipher. If the spell is on your class’s spell list, you can read the scroll and cast its spell without providing any material components. Otherwise, the scroll is unintelligible. Casting the spell by reading the scroll requires the spell’s normal casting time. Once the spell is cast, the words on the

scroll fade, and it crumbles to dust. If the casting is interrupted, the scroll is not lost.
If the spell is on your class’s spell list but of a higher level than you can normally cast, you must make an ability check using your spellcasting ability to determine whether you cast it successfully. The DC equals 10 + the spell’s level. On a failed check, the spell disappears from the scroll with no other effect.
The level of the spell on the scroll determines the spell’s saving throw DC and attack bonus, as well as the scroll’s rarity, as shown in the Spell Scroll table.

Spell Scroll

Spell Level Cantrip 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th

Rarity Common Common Uncommon Uncommon Rare Rare Very rare Very rare Very rare Legendary

Save DC 13 13 13 15 15 17 17 18 18 19

Attack Bonus +5 +5 +5 +7 +7 +9 +9 +10 +10 +11

A wizard spell on a spell scroll can be copied just as spells in spellbooks can be copied. When a spell is copied from a spell scroll, the copier must succeed on an Intelligence (Arcana) check with a DC equal to 10 + the spell’s level. If the check succeeds, the spell is successfully copied. Whether the check succeeds or fails, the spell scroll is destroyed.
Spellguard Shield
Armor (shield), very rare (requires attunement)
While holding this shield, you have advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects, and spell attacks have disadvantage against you.
Sphere of Annihilation
Wondrous item, legendary
This 2-foot-diameter black sphere is a hole in the multiverse, hovering in space and stabilized by a magical field surrounding it.
The sphere obliterates all matter it passes through and all matter that passes through it. Artifacts are the exception. Unless an artifact is susceptible to damage from a sphere of annihilation, it passes through the sphere unscathed. Anything else that touches the sphere but isn’t wholly engulfed and obliterated by it takes 4d10 force damage.
