one of those creatures. You don’t need to concentrate on this suggestion to maintain it during its duration, but it ends if scrying ends. Once used, the suggestion power of the crystal ball can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Crystal Ball of True Seeing. While scrying with the crystal ball, you have truesight with a radius of 120 feet centered on the spell’s sensor.

Cube of Force
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)

This cube is about an inch across. Each face has a distinct marking on it that can be pressed. The cube starts with 36 charges, and it regains 1d20 expended charges daily at dawn.
You can use an action to press one of the cube’s faces, expending a number of charges based on the chosen face, as shown in the Cube of Force Faces table. Each face has a different effect. If the cube has insufficient charges remaining, nothing happens. Otherwise, a barrier of invisible force springs into existence, forming a cube 15 feet on a side. The barrier is centered on you, moves with you, and lasts for 1 minute, until you use an action to press the cube’s sixth face, or the cube runs out of charges. You can change the barrier’s effect by pressing a different face of the cube and expending the requisite number of charges, resetting the duration.
If your movement causes the barrier to come into contact with a solid object that can’t pass through the cube, you can’t move any closer to that object as long as the barrier remains.

Cube of Force Faces

Face Charges Effect

1

1

Gases, wind, and fog can’t pass through

the barrier.

2

2

Nonliving matter can’t pass through the

barrier. Walls, floors, and ceilings can pass

through at your discretion.

3

3

Living matter can’t pass through the

barrier.

4

4

Spell effects can’t pass through the barrier.

5

5

Nothing can pass through the barrier.

Walls, floors, and ceilings can pass through

at your discretion.

6

0

The barrier deactivates.

The cube loses charges when the barrier is targeted by certain spells or comes into contact with certain spell or magic item effects, as shown in the table below.

Spell or Item Disintegrate Horn of blasting Passwall Prismatic spray Wall of fire

Charges Lost 1d12 1d10 1d6 1d20 1d4

Cubic Gate
Wondrous item, legendary
This cube is 3 inches across and radiates palpable magical energy. The six sides of the cube are each keyed to a different plane of existence, one of which is the Material Plane. The other sides are linked to planes determined by the GM.
You can use an action to press one side of the cube to cast the gate spell with it, opening a portal to the plane keyed to that side. Alternatively, if you use an action to press one side twice, you can cast the plane shift spell (save DC 17) with the cube and transport the targets to the plane keyed to that side.
The cube has 3 charges. Each use of the cube expends 1 charge. The cube regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.

Dagger of Venom
Weapon (dagger), rare
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.
You can use an action to cause thick, black poison to coat the blade. The poison remains for 1 minute or until an attack using this weapon hits a creature. That creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 2d10 poison damage and become poisoned for 1 minute. The dagger can’t be used this way again until the next dawn.

Dancing Sword
Weapon (any sword), very rare (requires attunement)
You can use a bonus action to toss this magic sword into the air and speak the command word. When you do so, the sword begins to hover, flies up to 30 feet, and attacks one creature of your choice within 5 feet of it. The sword uses your attack roll and ability score modifier to damage rolls.
While the sword hovers, you can use a bonus action to cause it to fly up to 30 feet to another spot within 30 feet of you. As part of the same bonus action, you can cause the sword to attack one creature within 5 feet of it.
After the hovering sword attacks for the fourth time, it flies up to 30 feet and tries to return to your hand. If you have no hand free, it falls to the ground
