If the target is native to the plane of existence you’re on, you banish the target to a harmless demiplane. While there, the target is incapacitated. The target remains there until the spell ends, at which point the target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.
If the target is native to a different plane of existence than the one you’re on, the target is banished with a faint popping noise, returning to its home plane. If the spell ends before 1 minute has passed, the target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied. Otherwise, the target doesn’t return.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 4th.
Barkskin
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a handful of oak bark) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends, the target’s skin has a rough, bark-like appearance, and the target’s AC can’t be less than 16, regardless of what kind of armor it is wearing.
Beacon of Hope
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell bestows hope and vitality. Choose any number of creatures within range. For the duration, each target has advantage on Wisdom saving throws and death saving throws, and regains the maximum number of hit points possible from any healing.
Bestow Curse
3rd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a creature, and that creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become cursed for the duration of the spell. When you cast

this spell, choose the nature of the curse from the following options:
• Choose one ability score. While cursed, the target has disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws made with that ability score.
• While cursed, the target has disadvantage on attack rolls against you.
• While cursed, the target must make a Wisdom saving throw at the start of each of its turns. If it fails, it wastes its action that turn doing nothing.
• While the target is cursed, your attacks and spells deal an extra 1d8 necrotic damage to the target.
A remove curse spell ends this effect. At the GM’s option, you may choose an alternative curse effect, but it should be no more powerful than those described above. The GM has final say on such a curse’s effect.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration is concentration, up to 10 minutes. If you use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the duration is 8 hours. If you use a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the duration is 24 hours. If you use a 9th level spell slot, the spell lasts until it is dispelled. Using a spell slot of 5th level or higher grants a duration that doesn’t require concentration.
Black Tentacles
4th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 90 feet Components: V, S, M (a piece of tentacle from a
giant octopus or a giant squid) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on ground that you can see within range. For the duration, these tentacles turn the ground in the area into difficult terrain.
When a creature enters the affected area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 3d6 bludgeoning damage and be restrained by the tentacles until the spell ends. A creature that starts its turn in the area and is already restrained by the tentacles takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage.
A creature restrained by the tentacles can use its action to make a Strength or Dexterity check (its choice) against your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself.
