Components: V, S, M (either a small leather loop or a piece of golden wire bent into a cup shape with a long shank on one end)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
One creature or object of your choice that you can see within range rises vertically, up to 20 feet, and remains suspended there for the duration. The spell can levitate a target that weighs up to 500 pounds. An unwilling creature that succeeds on a Constitution saving throw is unaffected.
The target can move only by pushing or pulling against a fixed object or surface within reach (such as a wall or a ceiling), which allows it to move as if it were climbing. You can change the target’s altitude by up to 20 feet in either direction on your turn. If you are the target, you can move up or down as part of your move. Otherwise, you can use your action to move the target, which must remain within the spell’s range.
When the spell ends, the target floats gently to the ground if it is still aloft.
Light
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, M (a firefly or phosphorescent
moss) Duration: 1 hour
You touch one object that is no larger than 10 feet in any dimension. Until the spell ends, the object sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet. The light can be colored as you like. Completely covering the object with something opaque blocks the light. The spell ends if you cast it again or dismiss it as an action.
If you target an object held or worn by a hostile creature, that creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw to avoid the spell.
Lightning Bolt
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self (100-foot line) Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur and a rod of amber,
crystal, or glass) Duration: Instantaneous
A stroke of lightning forming a line 100 feet long and 5 feet wide blasts out from you in a direction you choose. Each creature in the line must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 8d6

lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
The lightning ignites flammable objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
Locate Animals or Plants
2nd-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur from a
bloodhound) Duration: Instantaneous
Describe or name a specific kind of beast or plant. Concentrating on the voice of nature in your surroundings, you learn the direction and distance to the closest creature or plant of that kind within 5 miles, if any are present.
Locate Creature
4th-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur from a
bloodhound) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Describe or name a creature that is familiar to you. You sense the direction to the creature’s location, as long as that creature is within 1,000 feet of you. If the creature is moving, you know the direction of its movement.
The spell can locate a specific creature known to you, or the nearest creature of a specific kind (such as a human or a unicorn), so long as you have seen such a creature up close—within 30 feet—at least once. If the creature you described or named is in a different form, such as being under the effects of a polymorph spell, this spell doesn’t locate the creature.
This spell can’t locate a creature if running water at least 10 feet wide blocks a direct path between you and the creature.
Locate Object
2nd-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V, S, M (a forked twig) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
