You touch a creature that has died within the last minute. That creature returns to life with 1 hit point. This spell can’t return to life a creature that has died of old age, nor can it restore any missing body parts.
Rope Trick
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (powdered corn extract and a
twisted loop of parchment) Duration: 1 hour
You touch a length of rope that is up to 60 feet long. One end of the rope then rises into the air until the whole rope hangs perpendicular to the ground. At the upper end of the rope, an invisible entrance opens to an extradimensional space that lasts until the spell ends.
The extradimensional space can be reached by climbing to the top of the rope. The space can hold as many as eight Medium or smaller creatures. The rope can be pulled into the space, making the rope disappear from view outside the space.
Attacks and spells can’t cross through the entrance into or out of the extradimensional space, but those inside can see out of it as if through a 3-foot-by-5- foot window centered on the rope.
Anything inside the extradimensional space drops out when the spell ends.
Sacred Flame
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d8 radiant damage. The target gains no benefit from cover for this saving throw.
The spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).
Sanctuary
1st-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S, M (a small silver mirror) Duration: 1 minute

You ward a creature within range against attack. Until the spell ends, any creature who targets the warded creature with an attack or a harmful spell must first make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature must choose a new target or lose the attack or spell. This spell doesn’t protect the warded creature from area effects, such as the explosion of a fireball.
If the warded creature makes an attack or casts a spell that affects an enemy creature, this spell ends.

Scorching Ray
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You create three rays of fire and hurl them at targets within range. You can hurl them at one target or several.
Make a ranged spell attack for each ray. On a hit, the target takes 2d6 fire damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you create one additional ray for each slot level above 2nd.

Scrying
5th-level divination

Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: Self Components: V, S, M (a focus worth at least 1,000
gp, such as a crystal ball, a silver mirror, or a font filled with holy water) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You can see and hear a particular creature you choose that is on the same plane of existence as you. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw, which is modified by how well you know the target and the sort of physical connection you have to it. If a target knows you’re casting this spell, it can fail the saving throw voluntarily if it wants to be observed.

Knowledge Secondhand (you have heard of the target) Firsthand (you have met the target) Familiar (you know the target well) Connection Likeness or picture Possession or garment Body part, lock of hair, bit of nail, or the like

Save Modifier +5 +0 -5
Save Modifier -2 -4 -10
