crystal, or metal has disadvantage on this saving throw.
A nonmagical object that isn’t being worn or carried also takes the damage if it’s in the spell’s area.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
Shield
1st-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you are hit by an attack or targeted by the magic missile spell
Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: 1 round
An invisible barrier of magical force appears and protects you. Until the start of your next turn, you have a +5 bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack, and you take no damage from magic missile.
Shield of Faith
1st-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S, M (a small parchment with a bit
of holy text written on it) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A shimmering field appears and surrounds a creature of your choice within range, granting it a +2 bonus to AC for the duration.
Shillelagh
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 bonus action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (mistletoe, a shamrock leaf,
and a club or quarterstaff) Duration: 1 minute
The wood of a club or quarterstaff you are holding is imbued with nature’s power. For the duration, you can use your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the attack and damage rolls of melee attacks using that weapon, and the weapon’s damage die becomes a d8. The weapon also becomes magical, if it isn’t already. The spell ends if you cast it again or if you let go of the weapon.

Shocking Grasp
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Lightning springs from your hand to deliver a shock to a creature you try to touch. Make a melee spell attack against the target. You have advantage on the attack roll if the target is wearing armor made of metal. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 lightning damage, and it can’t take reactions until the start of its next turn.
The spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).
Silence
2nd-level illusion (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, no sound can be created within or pass through a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range. Any creature or object entirely inside the sphere is immune to thunder damage, and creatures are deafened while entirely inside it. Casting a spell that includes a verbal component is impossible there.
Silent Image
1st-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create the image of an object, a creature, or some other visible phenomenon that is no larger than a 15-foot cube. The image appears at a spot within range and lasts for the duration. The image is purely visual; it isn’t accompanied by sound, smell, or other sensory effects.
You can use your action to cause the image to move to any spot within range. As the image changes location, you can alter its appearance so that its movements appear natural for the image. For example, if you create an image of a creature and move it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be walking.
