Fire Storm
7th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 150 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A storm made up of sheets of roaring flame appears in a location you choose within range. The area of the storm consists of up to ten 10-foot cubes, which you can arrange as you wish. Each cube must have at least one face adjacent to the face of another cube. Each creature in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes 7d10 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
The fire damages objects in the area and ignites flammable objects that aren’t being worn or carried. If you choose, plant life in the area is unaffected by this spell.
Flame Blade
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action Range: Self Components: V, S, M (leaf of sumac) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade is similar in size and shape to a scimitar, and it lasts for the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disappears, but you can evoke the blade again as a bonus action.
You can use your action to make a melee spell attack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 fire damage.
The flaming blade sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for every two slot levels above 2nd.
Flame Strike
5th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S, M (pinch of sulfur) Duration: Instantaneous
A vertical column of divine fire roars down from the heavens in a location you specify. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within range must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 4d6 fire damage and 4d6

radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the fire damage or the radiant damage (your choice) increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 5th.
Flaming Sphere
2nd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S, M (a bit of tallow, a pinch of
brimstone, and a dusting of powdered iron) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire appears in an unoccupied space of your choice within range and lasts for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn within 5 feet of the sphere must make a Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes 2d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
As a bonus action, you can move the sphere up to 30 feet. If you ram the sphere into a creature, that creature must make the saving throw against the sphere’s damage, and the sphere stops moving this turn.
When you move the sphere, you can direct it over barriers up to 5 feet tall and jump it across pits up to 10 feet wide. The sphere ignites flammable objects not being worn or carried, and it sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.
Flesh to Stone
6th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S, M (a pinch of lime, water, and
earth) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to turn one creature that you can see within range into stone. If the target’s body is made of flesh, the creature must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it is restrained as its flesh begins to harden. On a successful save, the creature isn’t affected.
A creature restrained by this spell must make another Constitution saving throw at the end of each
