the GM’s choice within 10 feet of you and attacks you, warning all others that you must win the battle alone. The avatar fights until you die or it drops to 0 hit points, whereupon it disappears. If anyone tries to help you, the helper summons its own avatar of death. A creature slain by an avatar of death can’t be restored to life.
Avatar of Death
Medium undead, neutral evil
Armor Class 20 Hit Points half the hit point maximum of its summoner Speed 60 ft., fly 60 ft. (hover)
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 16 (+3)
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, paralyzed,
petrified, poisoned, unconscious Senses darkvision 60 ft., truesight 60 ft., passive
Perception 13 Languages all languages known to its summoner Challenge — (0 XP)
Incorporeal Movement. The avatar can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Turning Immunity. The avatar is immune to features that turn undead.
Actions
Reaping Scythe. The avatar sweeps its spectral scythe through a creature within 5 feet of it, dealing 7 (1d8 + 3) slashing damage plus 4 (1d8) necrotic damage.
Star. Increase one of your ability scores by 2. The score can exceed 20 but can’t exceed 24.
Sun. You gain 50,000 XP, and a wondrous item (which the GM determines randomly) appears in your hands.
Talons. Every magic item you wear or carry disintegrates. Artifacts in your possession aren’t destroyed but do vanish.
Throne. You gain proficiency in the Persuasion skill, and you double your proficiency bonus on checks made with that skill. In addition, you gain rightful ownership of a small keep somewhere in the

world. However, the keep is currently in the hands of monsters, which you must clear out before you can claim the keep as yours.
Vizier. At any time you choose within one year of drawing this card, you can ask a question in meditation and mentally receive a truthful answer to that question. Besides information, the answer helps you solve a puzzling problem or other dilemma. In other words, the knowledge comes with wisdom on how to apply it.
The Void. This black card spells disaster. Your soul is drawn from your body and contained in an object in a place of the GM’s choice. One or more powerful beings guard the place. While your soul is trapped in this way, your body is incapacitated. A wish spell can’t restore your soul, but the spell reveals the location of the object that holds it. You draw no more cards.
Defender
Weapon (any sword), legendary (requires attunement)
You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.
The first time you attack with the sword on each of your turns, you can transfer some or all of the sword’s bonus to your Armor Class, instead of using the bonus on any attacks that turn. For example, you could reduce the bonus to your attack and damage rolls to +1 and gain a +2 bonus to AC. The adjusted bonuses remain in effect until the start of your next turn, although you must hold the sword to gain a bonus to AC from it.
Demon Armor
Armor (plate), very rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC, and you can understand and speak Abyssal. In addition, the armor’s clawed gauntlets turn unarmed strikes with your hands into magic weapons that deal slashing damage, with a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls and a damage die of 1d8.
Curse. Once you don this cursed armor, you can’t doff it unless you are targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic. While wearing the armor, you have disadvantage on attack rolls against demons and on saving throws against their spells and special abilities.
