Mass Heal
9th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A flood of healing energy flows from you into injured creatures around you. You restore up to 700 hit points, divided as you choose among any number of creatures that you can see within range. Creatures healed by this spell are also cured of all diseases and any effect making them blinded or deafened. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
Mass Healing Word
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
As you call out words of restoration, up to six creatures of your choice that you can see within range regain hit points equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the healing increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 3rd.
Mass Suggestion
6th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, M (a snake’s tongue and either a bit
of honeycomb or a drop of sweet oil) Duration: 24 hours
You suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence or two) and magically influence up to twelve creatures of your choice that you can see within range and that can hear and understand you. Creatures that can’t be charmed are immune to this effect. The suggestion must be worded in such a manner as to make the course of action sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do some other obviously harmful act automatically negates the effect of the spell.
Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it pursues the course of action you described to the best of its ability. The suggested

course of action can continue for the entire duration. If the suggested activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell ends when the subject finishes what it was asked to do.
You can also specify conditions that will trigger a special activity during the duration. For example, you might suggest that a group of soldiers give all their money to the first beggar they meet. If the condition isn’t met before the spell ends, the activity isn’t performed.
If you or any of your companions damage a creature affected by this spell, the spell ends for that creature.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 7th-level spell slot, the duration is 10 days. When you use an 8th-level spell slot, the duration is 30 days. When you use a 9th-level spell slot, the duration is a year and a day.
Maze
8th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You banish a creature that you can see within range into a labyrinthine demiplane. The target remains there for the duration or until it escapes the maze.
The target can use its action to attempt to escape. When it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence check. If it succeeds, it escapes, and the spell ends (a minotaur or goristro demon automatically succeeds).
When the spell ends, the target reappears in the space it left or, if that space is occupied, in the nearest unoccupied space.
Meld into Stone
3rd-level transmutation (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: 8 hours
You step into a stone object or surface large enough to fully contain your body, melding yourself and all the equipment you carry with the stone for the duration. Using your movement, you step into the stone at a point you can touch. Nothing of your presence remains visible or otherwise detectable by nonmagical senses.
While merged with the stone, you can’t see what occurs outside it, and any Wisdom (Perception)
