Appendix MM-B:
Nonplayer
Characters
This appendix contains statistics for various humanoid nonplayer characters (NPCs) that adventurers might encounter during a campaign, including lowly commoners and mighty archmages. These stat blocks can be used to represent both human and nonhuman NPCs.
Customizing NPCs
There are many easy ways to customize the NPCs in this appendix for your home campaign.
Racial Traits. You can add racial traits to an NPC. For example, a halfling druid might have a speed of 25 feet and the Lucky trait. Adding racial traits to an NPC doesn’t alter its challenge rating. For more on racial traits, see the Player’s Handbook.
Spell Swaps. One way to customize an NPC spellcaster is to replace one or more of its spells. You can substitute any spell on the NPC’s spell list with a different spell of the same level from the same spell list. Swapping spells in this manner doesn’t alter an NPC’s challenge rating.
Armor and Weapon Swaps. You can upgrade or downgrade an NPC’s armor, or add or switch weapons. Adjustments to Armor Class and damage can change an NPC’s challenge rating.
Magic Items. The more powerful an NPC, the more likely it has one or more magic items in its possession. An archmage, for example, might have a magic staff or wand, as well as one or more potions and scrolls. Giving an NPC a potent damage-dealing magic item could alter its challenge rating.
Acolyte
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment
Armor Class 10
Hit Points 9 (2d8)
Speed 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
10 (+0) 10 (+0) 10 (+0) 10 (+0) 14 (+2) 11 (+0)
Skills Medicine +4, Religion +2
Senses passive Perception 12

Languages any one language (usually Common) Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Spellcasting. The acolyte is a 1st-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). The acolyte has following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): light, sacred flame, thaumaturgy 1st level (3 slots): bless, cure wounds, sanctuary
Actions Club. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 2 (1d4) bludgeoning damage.
Acolytes are junior members of a clergy, usually answerable to a priest. They perform a variety of functions in a temple and are granted minor spellcasting power by their deities.
Archmage
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment
Armor Class 12 (15 with mage armor) Hit Points 99 (18d8 + 18) Speed 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 10 (+0) 14 (+2) 12 (+1) 20 (+5) 15 (+2) 16 (+3)
Saving Throws Int +9, Wis +6 Skills Arcana +13, History +13 Damage Resistance damage from spells; nonmagical
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing (from stoneskin) Senses passive Perception 12 Languages any six languages Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Magic Resistance. The archmage has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Spellcasting. The archmage is an 18th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). The archmage can cast disguise self and invisibility at will and has the following wizard spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): fire bolt, light, mage hand,
prestidigitation, shocking grasp
