Difficult Terrain                                         your GM might allow you to make a Strength
                                                          (Athletics) check to jump higher than you normally
The travel speeds given in the Travel Pace table          can.
assume relatively simple terrain: roads, open plains,
or clear dungeon corridors. But adventurers often           You can extend your arms half your height above
face dense forests, deep swamps, rubble-­‐‑filled ruins,  yourself during the jump. Thus, you can reach above
steep mountains, and ice-­‐‑covered ground—all            you a distance equal to the height of the jump plus
considered difficult terrain.                             1½ times your height.

  You move at half speed in difficult terrain—
moving 1 foot in difficult terrain costs 2 feet of
speed—so you can cover only half the normal
distance in a minute, an hour, or a day.

Special Types of Movement

Movement through dangerous dungeons or
wilderness areas often involves more than simply
walking. Adventurers might have to climb, crawl,
swim, or jump to get where they need to go.

Climbing, Swimming, and Crawling

While climbing or swimming, each foot of movement
costs 1 extra foot (2 extra feet in difficult terrain),
unless a creature has a climbing or swimming speed.
At the GM’s option, climbing a slippery vertical
surface or one with few handholds requires a
successful Strength (Athletics) check. Similarly,
gaining any distance in rough water might require a
successful Strength (Athletics) check.

Jumping

Your Strength determines how far you can jump.
  Long Jump. When you make a long jump, you

cover a number of feet up to your Strength score if
you move at least 10 feet on foot immediately before
the jump. When you make a standing long jump, you
can leap only half that distance. Either way, each foot
you clear on the jump costs a foot of movement.

  This rule assumes that the height of your jump
doesn’t matter, such as a jump across a stream or
chasm. At your GM’s option, you must succeed on a
DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to clear a low
obstacle (no taller than a quarter of the jump’s
distance), such as a hedge or low wall. Otherwise,
you hit it.

  When you land in difficult terrain, you must
succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to
land on your feet. Otherwise, you land prone.

  High Jump. When you make a high jump, you leap
into the air a number of feet equal to 3 + your
Strength modifier if you move at least 10 feet on foot
immediately before the jump. When you make a
standing high jump, you can jump only half that
distance. Either way, each foot you clear on the jump
costs a foot of movement. In some circumstances,
