True Resurrection
9th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a sprinkle of holy water and
diamonds worth at least 25,000 gp, which the spell consumes) Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature that has been dead for no longer than 200 years and that died for any reason except old age. If the creature’s soul is free and willing, the creature is restored to life with all its hit points.
This spell closes all wounds, neutralizes any poison, cures all diseases, and lifts any curses affecting the creature when it died. The spell replaces damaged or missing organs and limbs.
The spell can even provide a new body if the original no longer exists, in which case you must speak the creature’s name. The creature then appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of you.
True Seeing
6th-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (an ointment for the eyes that
costs 25 gp; is made from mushroom powder, saffron, and fat; and is consumed by the spell) Duration: 1 hour
This spell gives the willing creature you touch the ability to see things as they actually are. For the duration, the creature has truesight, notices secret doors hidden by magic, and can see into the Ethereal Plane, all out to a range of 120 feet.
True Strike
Divination cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 round
You extend your hand and point a finger at a target in range. Your magic grants you a brief insight into the target’s defenses. On your next turn, you gain advantage on your first attack roll against the target, provided that this spell hasn’t ended.

Unseen Servant
1st-level conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S, M (a piece of string and a bit of
wood) Duration: 1 hour
This spell creates an invisible, mindless, shapeless force that performs simple tasks at your command until the spell ends. The servant springs into existence in an unoccupied space on the ground within range. It has AC 10, 1 hit point, and a Strength of 2, and it can’t attack. If it drops to 0 hit points, the spell ends.
Once on each of your turns as a bonus action, you can mentally command the servant to move up to 15 feet and interact with an object. The servant can perform simple tasks that a human servant could do, such as fetching things, cleaning, mending, folding clothes, lighting fires, serving food, and pouring wine. Once you give the command, the servant performs the task to the best of its ability until it completes the task, then waits for your next command.
If you command the servant to perform a task that would move it more than 60 feet away from you, the spell ends.
Vampiric Touch
3rd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can siphon life force from others to heal your wounds. Make a melee spell attack against a creature within your reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 necrotic damage, and you regain hit points equal to half the amount of necrotic damage dealt. Until the spell ends, you can make the attack again on each of your turns as an action.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
Vicious Mockery
Enchantment cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V
