attunement to the object so it can be removed or discarded.
Resilient Sphere
4th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S, M (a hemispherical piece of clear
crystal and a matching hemispherical piece of gum arabic) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A sphere of shimmering force encloses a creature or object of Large size or smaller within range. An unwilling creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is enclosed for the duration.
Nothing—not physical objects, energy, or other spell effects—can pass through the barrier, in or out, though a creature in the sphere can breathe there. The sphere is immune to all damage, and a creature or object inside can’t be damaged by attacks or effects originating from outside, nor can a creature inside the sphere damage anything outside it.
The sphere is weightless and just large enough to contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed creature can use its action to push against the sphere’s walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half the creature’s speed. Similarly, the globe can be picked up and moved by other creatures.
A disintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys it without harming anything inside it.
Resistance
Abjuration cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a miniature cloak) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch one willing creature. Once before the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to one saving throw of its choice. It can roll the die before or after making the saving throw. The spell then ends.
Resurrection
7th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth at least
1,000 gp, which the spell consumes) Duration: Instantaneous

You touch a dead creature that has been dead for no more than a century, that didn’t die of old age, and that isn’t undead. If its soul is free and willing, the target returns to life with all its hit points.
This spell neutralizes any poisons and cures normal diseases afflicting the creature when it died. It doesn’t, however, remove magical diseases, curses, and the like; if such effects aren’t removed prior to casting the spell, they afflict the target on its return to life.
This spell closes all mortal wounds and restores any missing body parts.
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The target takes a -4 penalty to all attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks. Every time the target finishes a long rest, the penalty is reduced by 1 until it disappears.
Casting this spell to restore life to a creature that has been dead for one year or longer taxes you greatly. Until you finish a long rest, you can’t cast spells again, and you have disadvantage on all attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws.
Reverse Gravity
7th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 100 feet Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and iron filings) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell reverses gravity in a 50-foot-radius, 100- foot high cylinder centered on a point within range. All creatures and objects that aren’t somehow anchored to the ground in the area fall upward and reach the top of the area when you cast this spell. A creature can make a Dexterity saving throw to grab onto a fixed object it can reach, thus avoiding the fall.
If some solid object (such as a ceiling) is encountered in this fall, falling objects and creatures strike it just as they would during a normal downward fall. If an object or creature reaches the top of the area without striking anything, it remains there, oscillating slightly, for the duration.
At the end of the duration, affected objects and creatures fall back down.
Revivify
3rd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (diamonds worth 300 gp,
which the spell consumes) Duration: Instantaneous
