Iron Bands of Binding
Wondrous item, rare
This rusty iron sphere measures 3 inches in diameter and weighs 1 pound. You can use an action to speak the command word and throw the sphere at a Huge or smaller creature you can see within 60 feet of you. As the sphere moves through the air, it opens into a tangle of metal bands.
Make a ranged attack roll with an attack bonus equal to your Dexterity modifier plus your proficiency bonus. On a hit, the target is restrained until you take a bonus action to speak the command word again to release it. Doing so, or missing with the attack, causes the bands to contract and become a sphere once more.
A creature, including the one restrained, can use an action to make a DC 20 Strength check to break the iron bands. On a success, the item is destroyed, and the restrained creature is freed. If the check fails, any further attempts made by that creature automatically fail until 24 hours have elapsed.
Once the bands are used, they can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Iron Flask
Wondrous item, legendary
This iron bottle has a brass stopper. You can use an action to speak the flask’s command word, targeting a creature that you can see within 60 feet of you. If the target is native to a plane of existence other than the one you’re on, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be trapped in the flask. If the target has been trapped by the flask before, it has advantage on the saving throw. Once trapped, a creature remains in the flask until released. The flask can hold only one creature at a time. A creature trapped in the flask doesn’t need to breathe, eat, or drink and doesn’t age.
You can use an action to remove the flask’s stopper and release the creature the flask contains. The creature is friendly to you and your companions for 1 hour and obeys your commands for that duration. If you give no commands or give it a command that is likely to result in its death, it defends itself but otherwise takes no actions. At the end of the duration, the creature acts in accordance with its normal disposition and alignment.
An identify spell reveals that a creature is inside the flask, but the only way to determine the type of creature is to open the flask. A newly discovered bottle might already contain a creature chosen by the GM or determined randomly.

d100 1r50 51r54 55r58 59r62 63r64
65 66 67 68r69 70r73 74r75 76r77 78r83 84r86 87r90 91 92r95 96 97r99 100

Contents Empty Demon (type 1) Demon (type 2) Demon (type 3) Demon (type 4) Demon (type 5) Demon (type 6) Deva Devil (greater) Devil (lesser) Djinni Efreeti Elemental (any) Invisible stalker Night hag Planetar Salamander Solar Succubus/incubus Xorn

Javelin of Lightning
Weapon (javelin), uncommon
This javelin is a magic weapon. When you hurl it and speak its command word, it transforms into a bolt of lightning, forming a line 5 feet wide that extends out from you to a target within 120 feet. Each creature in the line excluding you and the target must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d6 lightning damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one. The lightning bolt turns back into a javelin when it reaches the target. Make a ranged weapon attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes damage from the javelin plus 4d6 lightning damage.
The javelin’s property can’t be used again until the next dawn. In the meantime, the javelin can still be used as a magic weapon.

Lantern of Revealing
Wondrous item, uncommon
While lit, this hooded lantern burns for 6 hours on 1 pint of oil, shedding bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Invisible creatures and objects are visible as long as they are in the lantern’s bright light. You can use an action to lower the hood, reducing the light to dim light in a 5- foot radius.
