Sunlight Weakness. While in sunlight, the shadow has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws.
Actions Strength Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) necrotic damage, and the target’s Strength score is reduced by 1d4. The target dies if this reduces its Strength to 0. Otherwise, the reduction lasts until the target finishes a short or long rest.
If a non-evil humanoid dies from this attack, a new shadow rises from the corpse 1d4 hours later.
Shambling Mound
Large plant, unaligned
Armor Class 15 (natural armor) Hit Points 136 (16d10 + 48) Speed 20 ft., swim 20 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 18 (+4) 8 (-1) 16 (+3) 5 (-3) 10 (+0) 5 (-3)
Skills Stealth +2 Damage Resistances cold, fire Damage Immunities lightning Condition Immunities blinded, deafened, exhaustion Senses blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius),
passive Perception 10 Languages — Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Lightning Absorption. Whenever the shambling mound is subjected to lightning damage, it takes no damage and regains a number of hit points equal to the lightning damage dealt.
Actions Multiattack. The shambling mound makes two slam attacks. If both attacks hit a Medium or smaller target, the target is grappled (escape DC 14), and the shambling mound uses its Engulf on it. Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Engulf. The shambling mound engulfs a Medium or smaller creature grappled by it. The engulfed target is blinded, restrained, and unable to breathe, and it must

succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw at the start of each of the mound’s turns or take 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage. If the mound moves, the engulfed target moves with it. The mound can have only one creature engulfed at a time.
Shield Guardian
Large construct, unaligned
Armor Class 17 (natural armor) Hit Points 142 (15d10 + 60) Speed 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 18 (+4) 8 (-1) 18 (+4) 7 (-2) 10 (+0) 3 (-4)
Senses blindsight 10 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Damage Immunities poison Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened,
paralyzed, poisoned Languages understands commands given in any
language but can’t speak Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Bound. The shield guardian is magically bound to an amulet. As long as the guardian and its amulet are on the same plane of existence, the amulet’s wearer can telepathically call the guardian to travel to it, and the guardian knows the distance and direction to the amulet. If the guardian is within 60 feet of the amulet’s wearer, half of any damage the wearer takes (rounded up) is transferred to the guardian. Regeneration. The shield guardian regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. Spell Storing. A spellcaster who wears the shield guardian’s amulet can cause the guardian to store one spell of 4th level or lower. To do so, the wearer must cast the spell on the guardian. The spell has no effect but is stored within the guardian. When commanded to do so by the wearer or when a situation arises that was predefined by the spellcaster, the guardian casts the stored spell with any parameters set by the original caster, requiring no components. When the spell is cast or a new spell is stored, any previously stored spell is lost.
Actions
Multiattack. The guardian makes two fist attacks.
