Duration: 10 days
You touch a corpse or other remains. For the duration, the target is protected from decay and can’t become undead.
The spell also effectively extends the time limit on raising the target from the dead, since days spent under the influence of this spell don’t count against the time limit of spells such as raise dead.
Giant Insect
4th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You transform up to ten centipedes, three spiders, five wasps, or one scorpion within range into giant versions of their natural forms for the duration. A centipede becomes a giant centipede, a spider becomes a giant spider, a wasp becomes a giant wasp, and a scorpion becomes a giant scorpion.
Each creature obeys your verbal commands, and in combat, they act on your turn each round. The GM has the statistics for these creatures and resolves their actions and movement.
A creature remains in its giant size for the duration, until it drops to 0 hit points, or until you use an action to dismiss the effect on it.
The GM might allow you to choose different targets. For example, if you transform a bee, its giant version might have the same statistics as a giant wasp.
Glibness
8th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V Duration: 1 hour
Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma check, you can replace the number you roll with a 15. Additionally, no matter what you say, magic that would determine if you are telling the truth indicates that you are being truthful.
Globe of Invulnerability
6th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self (10-foot radius)

Components: V, S, M (a glass or crystal bead that shatters when the spell ends)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
An immobile, faintly shimmering barrier springs into existence in a 10-foot radius around you and remains for the duration.
Any spell of 5th level or lower cast from outside the barrier can’t affect creatures or objects within it, even if the spell is cast using a higher level spell slot. Such a spell can target creatures and objects within the barrier, but the spell has no effect on them. Similarly, the area within the barrier is excluded from the areas affected by such spells.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the barrier blocks spells of one level higher for each slot level above 6th.
Glyph of Warding
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 hour Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (incense and powdered
diamond worth at least 200 gp, which the spell consumes) Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
When you cast this spell, you inscribe a glyph that harms other creatures, either upon a surface (such as a table or a section of floor or wall) or within an object that can be closed (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure chest) to conceal the glyph. If you choose a surface, the glyph can cover an area of the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. If you choose an object, that object must remain in its place; if the object is moved more than 10 feet from where you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without being triggered.
The glyph is nearly invisible and requires a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to be found.
You decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, or manipulating the object on which the glyph is inscribed. For glyphs inscribed within an object, the most common triggers include opening that object, approaching within a certain distance of the object, or seeing or reading the glyph. Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends.
