Dwarven Plate
Armor (plate), very rare
While wearing this armor, you gain a +2 bonus to AC. In addition, if an effect moves you against your will along the ground, you can use your reaction to reduce the distance you are moved by up to 10 feet.

Dwarven Thrower
Weapon (warhammer), very rare (requires attunement by a dwarf)
You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. It has the thrown property with a normal range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet. When you hit with a ranged attack using this weapon, it deals an extra 1d8 damage or, if the target is a giant, 2d8 damage. Immediately after the attack, the weapon flies back to your hand.

Efficient Quiver
Wondrous item, uncommon
Each of the quiver’s three compartments connects to an extradimensional space that allows the quiver to hold numerous items while never weighing more than 2 pounds. The shortest compartment can hold up to sixty arrows, bolts, or similar objects. The midsize compartment holds up to eighteen javelins or similar objects. The longest compartment holds up to six long objects, such as bows, quarterstaffs, or spears.
You can draw any item the quiver contains as if doing so from a regular quiver or scabbard.

Efreeti Bottle
Wondrous item, very rare

This painted brass bottle weighs 1 pound. When you use an action to remove the stopper, a cloud of thick smoke flows out of the bottle. At the end of your turn, the smoke disappears with a flash of harmless fire, and an efreeti appears in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of you.
The first time the bottle is opened, the GM rolls to determine what happens.

d100 01–10
11–90

Effect The efreeti attacks you. After fighting for 5 rounds, the efreeti disappears, and the bottle loses its magic. The efreeti serves you for 1 hour, doing as you command. Then the efreeti returns to the bottle, and a new stopper contains it. The stopper can’t be removed for 24 hours. The next two times the bottle is opened, the same effect occurs. If the

91–00

bottle is opened a fourth time, the efreeti escapes and disappears, and the bottle loses its magic. The efreeti can cast the wish spell three times for you. It disappears when it grants the final wish or after 1 hour, and the bottle loses its magic.

Elemental Gem
Wondrous item, uncommon

This gem contains a mote of elemental energy. When you use an action to break the gem, an elemental is summoned as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell, and the gem’s magic is lost. The type of gem determines the elemental summoned by the spell.

Gem Blue sapphire Yellow diamond Red corundum Emerald

Summoned Elemental Air elemental Earth elemental Fire elemental Water elemental

Elven Chain
Armor (chain shirt), rare
You gain a +1 bonus to AC while you wear this armor. You are considered proficient with this armor even if you lack proficiency with medium armor.
Eversmoking Bottle
Wondrous item, uncommon
Smoke leaks from the lead-stoppered mouth of this brass bottle, which weighs 1 pound. When you use an action to remove the stopper, a cloud of thick smoke pours out in a 60-foot radius from the bottle. The cloud’s area is heavily obscured. Each minute the bottle remains open and within the cloud, the radius increases by 10 feet until it reaches its maximum radius of 120 feet.
The cloud persists as long as the bottle is open. Closing the bottle requires you to speak its command word as an action. Once the bottle is closed, the cloud disperses after 10 minutes. A moderate wind (11 to 20 miles per hour) can also disperse the smoke after 1 minute, and a strong wind (21 or more miles per hour) can do so after 1 round.
Eyes of Charming
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
These crystal lenses fit over the eyes. They have 3 charges. While wearing them, you can expend 1 charge as an action to cast the charm person spell
