transcribe the spell. For each level of the spell, the transcription process takes 2 hours and costs 50 gp for the rare inks needed to inscribe it.
Chains of Carceri
Prerequisite: 15th level, Pact of the Chain feature
You can cast hold monster at will—targeting a celestial, fiend, or elemental—without expending a spell slot or material components. You must finish a long rest before you can use this invocation on the same creature again.
Devil’s Sight
You can see normally in darkness, both magical and nonmagical, to a distance of 120 feet.
Dreadful Word
Prerequisite: 7th level
You can cast confusion once using a warlock spell slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest.
Eldritch Sight
You can cast detect magic at will, without expending a spell slot.
Eldritch Spear
Prerequisite: eldritch blast cantrip
When you cast eldritch blast, its range is 300 feet.
Eyes of the Rune Keeper
You can read all writing.
Fiendish Vigor
You can cast false life on yourself at will as a 1st-level spell, without expending a spell slot or material components.
Gaze of Two Minds
You can use your action to touch a willing humanoid and perceive through its senses until the end of your next turn. As long as the creature is on the same plane of existence as you, you can use your action on subsequent turns to maintain this connection, extending the duration until the end of your next turn. While perceiving through the other creature’s senses, you benefit from any special senses possessed by that creature, and you are blinded and deafened to your own surroundings.

Lifedrinker
Prerequisite: 12th level, Pact of the Blade feature
When you hit a creature with your pact weapon, the creature takes extra necrotic damage equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1).
Mask of Many Faces
You can cast disguise self at will, without expending a spell slot.
Master of Myriad Forms
Prerequisite: 15th level
You can cast alter self at will, without expending a spell slot.
Minions of Chaos
Prerequisite: 9th level
You can cast conjure elemental once using a warlock spell slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest.
Mire the Mind
Prerequisite: 5th level
You can cast slow once using a warlock spell slot. You can’t do so again until you finish a long rest.
Misty Visions
You can cast silent image at will, without expending a spell slot or material components.
One with Shadows
Prerequisite: 5th level
When you are in an area of dim light or darkness, you can use your action to become invisible until you move or take an action or a reaction.
Otherworldly Leap
Prerequisite: 9th level
You can cast jump on yourself at will, without expending a spell slot or material components.
Repelling Blast
Prerequisite: eldritch blast cantrip
When you hit a creature with eldritch blast, you can push the creature up to 10 feet away from you in a straight line.
