Luck Blade
Weapon (any sword), legendary (requires attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. While the sword is on your person, you also gain a +1 bonus to saving throws.
Luck. If the sword is on your person, you can call on its luck (no action required) to reroll one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw you dislike. You must use the second roll. This property can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Wish. The sword has 1d4 – 1 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 charge and cast the wish spell from it. This property can’t be used again until the next dawn. The sword loses this property if it has no charges.
Mace of Disruption
Weapon (mace), rare (requires attunement)
When you hit a fiend or an undead with this magic weapon, that creature takes an extra 2d6 radiant damage. If the target has 25 hit points or fewer after taking this damage, it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be destroyed. On a successful save, the creature becomes frightened of you until the end of your next turn.
While you hold this weapon, it sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet.
Mace of Smiting
Weapon (mace), rare
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. The bonus increases to +3 when you use the mace to attack a construct.
When you roll a 20 on an attack roll made with this weapon, the target takes an extra 2d6 bludgeoning damage, or 4d6 bludgeoning damage if it’s a construct. If a construct has 25 hit points or fewer after taking this damage, it is destroyed.
Mace of Terror
Weapon (mace), rare (requires attunement)
This magic weapon has 3 charges. While holding it, you can use an action and expend 1 charge to release a wave of terror. Each creature of your choice in a 30-foot radius extending from you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you for 1 minute. While it is frightened in this way, a creature must spend its turns trying to move as far

away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If it has nowhere it can move, the creature can use the Dodge action. At the end of each of its turns, a creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success.
The mace regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.

Mantle of Spell Resistance
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
You have advantage on saving throws against spells while you wear this cloak.

Manual of Bodily Health
Wondrous item, very rare
This book contains health and diet tips, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book’s contents and practicing its guidelines, your Constitution score increases by 2, as does your maximum for that score. The manual then loses its magic, but regains it in a century.

Manual of Gainful Exercise
Wondrous item, very rare
This book describes fitness exercises, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book’s contents and practicing its guidelines, your Strength score increases by 2, as does your maximum for that score. The manual then loses its magic, but regains it in a century.

Manual of Golems
Wondrous item, very rare

This tome contains information and incantations necessary to make a particular type of golem. The GM chooses the type or determines it randomly. To decipher and use the manual, you must be a spellcaster with at least two 5th-level spell slots. A creature that can’t use a manual of golems and attempts to read it takes 6d6 psychic damage.

d20 1–5 6–17 18 19–20

Golem Clay Flesh Iron Stone

Time 30 days 60 days 120 days 90 days

Cost 65,000 gp 50,000 gp 100,000 gp 80,000 gp
