cumulative 20 percent chance of not working and tearing into useless, nonmagical tatters.
Winged Boots
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While you wear these boots, you have a flying speed equal to your walking speed. You can use the boots to fly for up to 4 hours, all at once or in several shorter flights, each one using a minimum of 1 minute from the duration. If you are flying when the duration expires, you descend at a rate of 30 feet per round until you land.
The boots regain 2 hours of flying capability for every 12 hours they aren’t in use.
Wings of Flying
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this cloak, you can use an action to speak its command word. This turns the cloak into a pair of bat wings or bird wings on your back for 1 hour or until you repeat the command word as an action. The wings give you a flying speed of 60 feet. When they disappear, you can’t use them again for 1d12 hours.
Sentient Magic Items
Some magic items possess sentience and personality. Such an item might be possessed, haunted by the spirit of a previous owner, or self-aware thanks to the magic used to create it. In any case, the item behaves like a character, complete with personality quirks, ideals, bonds, and sometimes flaws. A sentient item might be a cherished ally to its wielder or a continual thorn in the side.
Most sentient items are weapons. Other kinds of items can manifest sentience, but consumable items such as potions and scrolls are never sentient.
Sentient magic items function as NPCs under the GM’s control. Any activated property of the item is under the item’s control, not its wielder’s. As long as the wielder maintains a good relationship with the item, the wielder can access those properties normally. If the relationship is strained, the item can suppress its activated properties or even turn them against the wielder.
Creating Sentient Magic Items
When you decide to make a magic item sentient, you create the item’s persona in the same way you would create an NPC, with a few exceptions described here.

Abilities
A sentient magic item has Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. You can choose the item’s abilities or determine them randomly. To determine them randomly, roll 4d6 for each one, dropping the lowest roll and totaling the rest.

Communication
A sentient item has some ability to communicate, either by sharing its emotions, broadcasting its thoughts telepathically, or speaking aloud. You can choose how it communicates or roll on the following table.

d100 01–60
61–90
91–00

Communication The item communicates by transmitting emotion to the creature carrying or wielding it. The item can speak, read, and understand one or more languages. The item can speak, read, and understand one or more languages. In addition, the item can communicate telepathically with any character that carries or wields it.

Senses
With sentience comes awareness. A sentient item can perceive its surroundings out to a limited range. You can choose its senses or roll on the following table.
d4 Senses 1 Hearing and normal vision out to 30 feet. 2 Hearing and normal vision out to 60 feet 3 Hearing and normal vision out to 120 feet. 4 Hearing and darkvision out to 120 feet.

Alignment
A sentient magic item has an alignment. Its creator or nature might suggest an alignment. If not, you can pick an alignment or roll on the following table.

d100 01–15 16–35 36–50 51–63 64–73

Alignment Lawful good Neutral good Chaotic good Lawful neutral Neutral

d100 74–85 86–89 90–96 97–00

Alignment Chaotic neutral Lawful evil Neutral evil Chaotic evil

Special Purpose
You can give a sentient item an objective it pursues, perhaps to the exclusion of all else. As long as the wielder’s use of the item aligns with that special purpose, the item remains cooperative. Deviating from this course might cause conflict between the wielder and the item, and could even cause the item to prevent the use of its activated properties. You
