Ring of Swimming
Ring, uncommon
You have a swimming speed of 40 feet while wearing this ring.
Ring of Telekinesis
Ring, very rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can cast the telekinesis spell at will, but you can target only objects that aren’t being worn or carried.
Ring of the Ram
Ring, rare (requires attunement)
This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can use an action to expend 1 to 3 of its charges to attack one creature you can see within 60 feet of you. The ring produces a spectral ram’s head and makes its attack roll with a +7 bonus. On a hit, for each charge you spend, the target takes 2d10 force damage and is pushed 5 feet away from you.
Alternatively, you can expend 1 to 3 of the ring’s charges as an action to try to break an object you can see within 60 feet of you that isn’t being worn or carried. The ring makes a Strength check with a +5 bonus for each charge you spend.
Ring of Three Wishes
Ring, legendary
While wearing this ring, you can use an action to expend 1 of its 3 charges to cast the wish spell from it. The ring becomes nonmagical when you use the last charge.
Ring of Warmth
Ring, uncommon (requires attunement)
While wearing this ring, you have resistance to cold damage. In addition, you and everything you wear and carry are unharmed by temperatures as low as -50 degrees Fahrenheit.
Ring of Water Walking
Ring, uncommon
While wearing this ring, you can stand on and move across any liquid surface as if it were solid ground.
Ring of X-ray Vision
Ring, rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can use an action to speak its command word. When you do so, you can

see into and through solid matter for 1 minute. This vision has a radius of 30 feet. To you, solid objects within that radius appear transparent and don’t prevent light from passing through them. The vision can penetrate 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, or up to 3 feet of wood or dirt. Thicker substances block the vision, as does a thin sheet of lead.
Whenever you use the ring again before taking a long rest, you must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion.
Robe of Eyes
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
This robe is adorned with eyelike patterns. While you wear the robe, you gain the following benefits:
• The robe lets you see in all directions, and you have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
• You have darkvision out to a range of 120 feet. • You can see invisible creatures and objects, as well
as see into the Ethereal Plane, out to a range of 120 feet.
The eyes on the robe can’t be closed or averted. Although you can close or avert your own eyes, you are never considered to be doing so while wearing this robe.
A light spell cast on the robe or a daylight spell cast within 5 feet of the robe causes you to be blinded for 1 minute. At the end of each of your turns, you can make a Constitution saving throw (DC 11 for light or DC 15 for daylight), ending the blindness on a success.
Robe of Scintillating Colors
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
This robe has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While you wear it, you can use an action and expend 1 charge to cause the garment to display a shifting pattern of dazzling hues until the end of your next turn. During this time, the robe sheds bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Creatures that can see you have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. In addition, any creature in the bright light that can see you when the robe’s power is activated must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become stunned until the effect ends.
