Create or Destroy Water
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S, M (a drop of water if creating
water or a few grains of sand if destroying it) Duration: Instantaneous
You either create or destroy water. Create Water. You create up to 10 gallons of clean
water within range in an open container. Alternatively, the water falls as rain in a 30-foot cube within range, extinguishing exposed flames in the area.
Destroy Water. You destroy up to 10 gallons of water in an open container within range. Alternatively, you destroy fog in a 30-foot cube within range.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you create or destroy 10 additional gallons of water, or the size of the cube increases by 5 feet, for each slot level above 1st.
Create Undead
6th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 10 feet Components: V, S, M (one clay pot filled with grave
dirt, one clay pot filled with brackish water, and one 150 gp black onyx stone for each corpse) Duration: Instantaneous
You can cast this spell only at night. Choose up to three corpses of Medium or Small humanoids within range. Each corpse becomes a ghoul under your control. (The GM has game statistics for these creatures.)
As a bonus action on each of your turns, you can mentally command any creature you animated with this spell if the creature is within 120 feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you can command any or all of them at the same time, issuing the same command to each one). You decide what action the creature will take and where it will move during its next turn, or you can issue a general command, such as to guard a particular chamber or corridor. If you issue no commands, the creature only defends itself against hostile creatures. Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it until its task is complete.
The creature is under your control for 24 hours, after which it stops obeying any command you have

given it. To maintain control of the creature for another 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature before the current 24-hour period ends. This use of the spell reasserts your control over up to three creatures you have animated with this spell, rather than animating new ones.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 7th-level spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over four ghouls. When you cast this spell using an 8th-level spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over five ghouls or two ghasts or wights. When you cast this spell using a 9th-level spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over six ghouls, three ghasts or wights, or two mummies.

Creation
5th-level illusion

Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 30 feet Components: V, S, M (a tiny piece of matter of the
same type of the item you plan to create) Duration: Special

You pull wisps of shadow material from the Shadowfell to create a nonliving object of vegetable matter within range: soft goods, rope, wood, or something similar. You can also use this spell to create mineral objects such as stone, crystal, or metal. The object created must be no larger than a 5- foot cube, and the object must be of a form and material that you have seen before.
The duration depends on the object’s material. If the object is composed of multiple materials, use the shortest duration.

Material Vegetable matter Stone or crystal Precious metals Gems Adamantine or mithral

Duration 1 day 12 hours 1 hour 10 minutes 1 minute

Using any material created by this spell as another spell’s material component causes that spell to fail.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the cube increases by 5 feet for each slot level above 5th.
Cure Wounds
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
