Languages Celestial, Elvish, Sylvan, telepathy 60 ft. Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Charge. If the unicorn moves at least 20 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a horn attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) piercing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. Innate Spellcasting. The unicorn’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14). The unicorn can innately cast the following spells, requiring no components: At will: detect evil and good, druidcraft, pass without
trace 1/day each: calm emotions, dispel evil and good,
entangle Magic Resistance. The unicorn has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. Magic Weapons. The unicorn’s weapon attacks are magical.
Actions
Multiattack. The unicorn makes two attacks: one with its hooves and one with its horn. Hooves. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage. Horn. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 4) piercing damage. Healing Touch (3/Day). The unicorn touches another creature with its horn. The target magically regains 11 (2d8 + 2) hit points. In addition, the touch removes all diseases and neutralizes all poisons afflicting the target. Teleport (1/Day). The unicorn magically teleports itself and up to three willing creatures it can see within 5 feet of it, along with any equipment they are wearing or carrying, to a location the unicorn is familiar with, up to 1 mile away.
Legendary Actions
The unicorn can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s turn. The unicorn regains spent legendary actions at the start of its turn. Hooves. The unicorn makes one attack with its hooves.

Shimmering Shield (Costs 2 Actions). The unicorn creates a shimmering, magical field around itself or another creature it can see within 60 feet of it. The target gains a +2 bonus to AC until the end of the unicorn’s next turn.
Heal Self (Costs 3 Actions). The unicorn magically regains 11 (2d8 + 2) hit points.
Monsters (V)
Vampires
Vampire
Medium undead (shapechanger), lawful evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor) Hit Points 144 (17d8 + 68) Speed 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 18 (+4) 18 (+4) 18 (+4) 17 (+3) 15 (+2) 18 (+4)
Saving Throws Dex +9, Wis +7, Cha +9 Skills Perception +7, Stealth +9 Damage Resistances necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 17 Languages the languages it knew in life Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Shapechanger. If the vampire isn’t in sunlight or running water, it can use its action to polymorph into a Tiny bat or a Medium cloud of mist, or back into its true form.
While in bat form, the vampire can’t speak, its walking speed is 5 feet, and it has a flying speed of 30 feet. Its statistics, other than its size and speed, are unchanged. Anything it is wearing transforms with it, but nothing it is carrying does. It reverts to its true form if it dies.
While in mist form, the vampire can’t take any actions, speak, or manipulate objects. It is weightless, has a flying speed of 20 feet, can hover, and can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop there. In addition, if air can pass through a space, the mist can do so without squeezing, and it can’t pass through water. It has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution
