you. Each affected target must use as much of its movement as possible to move in that direction on its next turn. It can take its action before it moves. After moving in this way, it can make another Wisdom saving to try to end the effect.
A target isn't compelled to move into an obviously deadly hazard, such as a fire or pit, but it will provoke opportunity attacks to move in the designated direction.
Cone of Cold
5th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self (60-foot cone) Components: V, S, M (a small crystal or glass cone) Duration: Instantaneous
A blast of cold air erupts from your hands. Each creature in a 60-foot cone must make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 8d8 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
A creature killed by this spell becomes a frozen statue until it thaws.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 5th.
Confusion
4th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 90 feet Components: V, S, M (three nut shells) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell assaults and twists creatures’ minds, spawning delusions and provoking uncontrolled action. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw when you cast this spell or be affected by it.
An affected target can’t take reactions and must roll a d10 at the start of each of its turns to determine its behavior for that turn.
d10 Behavior 1 The creature uses all its movement to move in a random direction. To determine the direction, roll a d8 and assign a direction to each die face. The creature doesn’t take an action this turn.
2–6 The creature doesn’t move or take actions this turn.
7–8 The creature uses its action to make a melee attack against a randomly determined creature

9–10

within its reach. If there is no creature within its reach, the creature does nothing this turn. The creature can act and move normally.

At the end of each of its turns, an affected target can make a Wisdom saving throw. If it succeeds, this effect ends for that target.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the radius of the sphere increases by 5 feet for each slot level above 4th.
Conjure Animals
3rd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You summon fey spirits that take the form of beasts and appear in unoccupied spaces that you can see within range. Choose one of the following options for what appears:
• One beast of challenge rating 2 or lower • Two beasts of challenge rating 1 or lower • Four beasts of challenge rating 1/2 or lower • Eight beasts of challenge rating 1/4 or lower
Each beast is also considered fey, and it disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.
The summoned creatures are friendly to you and your companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures as a group, which has its own turns. They obey any verbal commands that you issue to them (no action required by you). If you don’t issue any commands to them, they defend themselves from hostile creatures, but otherwise take no actions.
The GM has the creatures’ statistics. At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using certain higher-level spell slots, you choose one of the summoning options above, and more creatures appear: twice as many with a 5th-level slot, three times as many with a 7th-level slot, and four times as many with a 9th-level slot.
Conjure Celestial
7th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 90 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
