of its friends being harmed. When the spell ends, the creature becomes hostile again, unless the GM rules otherwise.
Chain Lightning
6th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 150 feet Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur; a piece of amber,
glass, or a crystal rod; and three silver pins) Duration: Instantaneous
You create a bolt of lightning that arcs toward a target of your choice that you can see within range. Three bolts then leap from that target to as many as three other targets, each of which must be within 30 feet of the first target. A target can be a creature or an object and can be targeted by only one of the bolts.
A target must make a Dexterity saving throw. The target takes 10d8 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, one additional bolt leaps from the first target to another target for each slot level above 6th.
Charm Person
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: 1 hour
You attempt to charm a humanoid you can see within range. It must make a Wisdom saving throw, and does so with advantage if you or your companions are fighting it. If it fails the saving throw, it is charmed by you until the spell ends or until you or your companions do anything harmful to it. The charmed creature regards you as a friendly acquaintance. When the spell ends, the creature knows it was charmed by you.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.
Chill Touch
Necromancy cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S Duration: 1 round
You create a ghostly, skeletal hand in the space of a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the creature to assail it with the chill of the grave. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 necrotic damage, and it can’t regain hit points until the start of your next turn. Until then, the hand clings to the target.
If you hit an undead target, it also has disadvantage on attack rolls against you until the end of your next turn.
This spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).
Circle of Death
6th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 150 feet Components: V, S, M (the powder of a crushed black
pearl worth at least 500 gp) Duration: Instantaneous
A sphere of negative energy ripples out in a 60-foot- radius sphere from a point within range. Each creature in that area must make a Constitution saving throw. A target takes 8d6 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage increases by 2d6 for each slot level above 6th.
Clairvoyance
3rd-level divination
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: 1 mile Components: V, S, M (a focus worth at least 100 gp,
either a jeweled horn for hearing or a glass eye for seeing) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create an invisible sensor within range in a location familiar to you (a place you have visited or seen before) or in an obvious location that is unfamiliar to you (such as behind a door, around a corner, or in a grove of trees). The sensor remains in place for the duration, and it can’t be attacked or otherwise interacted with.
When you cast the spell, you choose seeing or hearing. You can use the chosen sense through the sensor as if you were in its space. As your action, you can switch between seeing and hearing.
