d10 Damage Type 1 Acid 2 Cold 3 Fire 4 Force 5 Lightning

d10 Damage Type 6 Necrotic 7 Poison 8 Psychic 9 Radiant 10 Thunder

Armor of Vulnerability
Armor (plate), rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this armor, you have resistance to one of the following damage types: bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing. The GM chooses the type or determines it randomly.
Curse. This armor is cursed, a fact that is revealed only when an identify spell is cast on the armor or you attune to it. Attuning to the armor curses you until you are targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic; removing the armor fails to end the curse. While cursed, you have vulnerability to two of the three damage types associated with the armor (not the one to which it grants resistance).

Arrow-Catching Shield
Armor (shield), rare (requires attunement)
You gain a +2 bonus to AC against ranged attacks while you wield this shield. This bonus is in addition to the shield’s normal bonus to AC. In addition, whenever an attacker makes a ranged attack against a target within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to become the target of the attack instead.

Arrow of Slaying
Weapon (arrow), very rare
An arrow of slaying is a magic weapon meant to slay a particular kind of creature. Some are more focused than others; for example, there are both arrows of dragon slaying and arrows of blue dragon slaying. If a creature belonging to the type, race, or group associated with an arrow of slaying takes damage from the arrow, the creature must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking an extra 6d10 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much extra damage on a successful one.
Once an arrow of slaying deals its extra damage to a creature, it becomes a nonmagical arrow.
Other types of magic ammunition of this kind exist, such as bolts of slaying meant for a crossbow, though arrows are most common.

Bag of Beans
Wondrous item, rare

Inside this heavy cloth bag are 3d4 dry beans. The bag weighs 1/2 pound plus 1/4 pound for each bean it contains.
If you dump the bag’s contents out on the ground, they explode in a 10-foot radius, extending from the beans. Each creature in the area, including you, must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d4 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire ignites flammable objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried.
If you remove a bean from the bag, plant it in dirt or sand, and then water it, the bean produces an effect 1 minute later from the ground where it was planted. The GM can choose an effect from the following table, determine it randomly, or create an effect.

d100 01
02–10 11–20 21–30
31–40 41–50 51–60
61–70 71–80
81–90

Effect 5d4 toadstools sprout. If a creature eats a toadstool, roll any die. On an odd roll, the eater must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 5d6 poison damage and become poisoned for 1 hour. On an even roll, the eater gains 5d6 temporary hit points for 1 hour. A geyser erupts and spouts water, beer, berry juice, tea, vinegar, wine, or oil (GM’s choice) 30 feet into the air for 1d12 rounds. A treant sprouts. There’s a 50 percent chance that the treant is chaotic evil and attacks. An animate, immobile stone statue in your likeness rises. It makes verbal threats against you. If you leave it and others come near, it describes you as the most heinous of villains and directs the newcomers to find and attack you. If you are on the same plane of existence as the statue, it knows where you are. The statue becomes inanimate after 24 hours. A campfire with blue flames springs forth and burns for 24 hours (or until it is extinguished). 1d6 + 6 shriekers sprout 1d4 + 8 bright pink toads crawl forth. Whenever a toad is touched, it transforms into a Large or smaller monster of the GM’s choice. The monster remains for 1 minute, then disappears in a puff of bright pink smoke. A hungry bulette burrows up and attacks. A fruit tree grows. It has 1d10 + 20 fruit, 1d8 of which act as randomly determined magic potions, while one acts as an ingested poison of the GM’s choice. The tree vanishes after 1 hour. Picked fruit remains, retaining any magic for 30 days. A nest of 1d4 + 3 eggs springs up. Any creature
