Blue    Lightning                                        its turn in this aura must succeed on a Wisdom
Brass   Fire                                             saving throw or be charmed (if you chose awe) or
Bronze  Lightning                                        frightened (if you chose fear) until the aura ends. A
Copper  Acid                                             creature that succeeds on this saving throw is
Gold    Fire                                             immune to your aura for 24 hours.
Green   Poison
Red     Fire
Silver  Cold
White   Cold

You can speak, read, and write Draconic.
Additionally, whenever you make a Charisma check
when interacting with dragons, your proficiency
bonus is doubled if it applies to the check.

Draconic Resilience

As magic flows through your body, it causes physical
traits of your dragon ancestors to emerge. At 1st
level, your hit point maximum increases by 1 and
increases by 1 again whenever you gain a level in
this class.

  Additionally, parts of your skin are covered by a
thin sheen of dragon-­‐‑like scales. When you aren’t
wearing armor, your AC equals 13 + your Dexterity
modifier.

Elemental Affinity

Starting at 6th level, when you cast a spell that deals
damage of the type associated with your draconic
ancestry, you can add your Charisma modifier to one
damage roll of that spell. At the same time, you can
spend 1 sorcery point to gain resistance to that
damage type for 1 hour.

Dragon Wings

At 14th level, you gain the ability to sprout a pair of
dragon wings from your back, gaining a flying speed
equal to your current speed. You can create these
wings as a bonus action on your turn. They last until
you dismiss them as a bonus action on your turn.

  You can’t manifest your wings while wearing
armor unless the armor is made to accommodate
them, and clothing not made to accommodate your
wings might be destroyed when you manifest them.

Draconic Presence

Beginning at 18th level, you can channel the dread
presence of your dragon ancestor, causing those
around you to become awestruck or frightened. As
an action, you can spend 5 sorcery points to draw on
this power and exude an aura of awe or fear (your
choice) to a distance of 60 feet. For 1 minute or until
you lose your concentration (as if you were casting a
concentration spell), each hostile creature that starts
