At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
Hellish Rebuke
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take in response to being damaged by a creature within 60 feet of you that you can see Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous You point your finger, and the creature that damaged you is momentarily surrounded by hellish flames. The creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes 2d10 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 1st.
Heroes’ Feast
6th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: 30 feet Components: V, S , M (a gem-encrusted bowl worth
at least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes) Duration: Instantaneous
You bring forth a great feast, including magnificent food and drink. The feast takes 1 hour to consume and disappears at the end of that time, and the beneficial effects don’t set in until this hour is over. Up to twelve other creatures can partake of the feast.
A creature that partakes of the feast gains several benefits. The creature is cured of all diseases and poison, becomes immune to poison and being frightened, and makes all Wisdom saving throws with advantage. Its hit point maximum also increases by 2d10, and it gains the same number of hit points. These benefits last for 24 hours.
Heroism
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A willing creature you touch is imbued with bravery. Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to being frightened and gains temporary hit points equal to your spellcasting ability modifier at the start of each

of its turns. When the spell ends, the target loses any remaining temporary hit points from this spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 1st.
Hideous Laughter
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S, M (tiny tarts and a feather that is
waved in the air) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A creature of your choice that you can see within range perceives everything as hilariously funny and falls into fits of laughter if this spell affects it. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or fall prone, becoming incapacitated and unable to stand up for the duration. A creature with an Intelligence score of 4 or less isn’t affected.
At the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes damage, the target can make another Wisdom saving throw. The target has advantage on the saving throw if it’s triggered by damage. On a success, the spell ends.
Hold Monster
5th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 90 feet Components: V, S, M (a small, straight piece of iron) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a creature that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be paralyzed for the duration. This spell has no effect on undead. At the end of each of its turns, the target can make another Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the spell ends on the target.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 5th. The creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you target them.
Hold Person
2nd-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S, M (a small, straight piece of iron) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
