Fighter
Class Features
As a fighter, you gain the following class features.
Hit Points
Hit Dice: 1d10 per fighter level Hit Points at 1st Level: 10 + your Constitution
modifier Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d10 (or 6) + your
Constitution modifier per fighter level after 1st
Proficiencies
Armor: All armor, shields Weapons: Simple weapons, martial weapons Tools: None Saving Throws: Strength, Constitution Skills: Choose two skills from Acrobatics, Animal
Handling, Athletics, History, Insight, Intimidation, Perception, and Survival
Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
• (a) chain mail or (b) leather armor, longbow, and 20 arrows
• (a) a martial weapon and a shield or (b) two martial weapons
• (a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) two handaxes
• (a) a dungeoneer’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack

The Fighter

Level 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th 11th 12th 13th 14th 15th

Proficiency Bonus +2 +2 +2 +2 +3 +3 +3 +3 +4 +4 +4 +4 +5 +5 +5

Features Fighting Style, Second Wind Action Surge (one use) Martial Archetype Ability Score Improvement Extra Attack Ability Score Improvement Martial Archetype feature Ability Score Improvement Indomitable (one use) Martial Archetype feature Extra Attack (2) Ability Score Improvement Indomitable (two uses) Ability Score Improvement Martial Archetype feature

16th

+5

Ability Score Improvement

17th

+6

Action Surge (two uses),

Indomitable (three uses)

18th

+6

Martial Archetype feature

19th

+6

Ability Score Improvement

20th

+6

Extra Attack (3)

Fighting Style
You adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
Archery
You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged weapons.
Defense
While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC.
Dueling
When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.
Great Weapon Fighting
When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1 or a 2. The weapon must have the two-handed or versatile property for you to gain this benefit.
Protection
When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack roll. You must be wielding a shield.
Two-Weapon Fighting
When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack.
Second Wind
You have a limited well of stamina that you can draw on to protect yourself from harm. On your turn, you can use a bonus action to regain hit points equal to 1d10 + your fighter level. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again.
