on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. If you have 17 or more levels in the paladin class, the radius of the aura increases to 30 feet.

Horn of Blasting
Wondrous item, rare
You can use an action to speak the horn’s command word and then blow the horn, which emits a thunderous blast in a 30-foot cone that is audible 600 feet away. Each creature in the cone must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 5d6 thunder damage and is deafened for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn’t deafened. Creatures and objects made of glass or crystal have disadvantage on the saving throw and take 10d6 thunder damage instead of 5d6.
Each use of the horn’s magic has a 20 percent chance of causing the horn to explode. The explosion deals 10d6 fire damage to the blower and destroys the horn.

Horn of Valhalla
Wondrous item, rare (silver or brass), very rare (bronze), or legendary (iron)

You can use an action to blow this horn. In response, warrior spirits from the Valhalla appear within 60 feet of you. They use the statistics of a berserker. They return to Valhalla after 1 hour or when they drop to 0 hit points. Once you use the horn, it can’t be used again until 7 days have passed.
Four types of horn of Valhalla are known to exist, each made of a different metal. The horn’s type determines how many berserkers answer its summons, as well as the requirement for its use. The GM chooses the horn’s type or determines it randomly.

d100
01–40 41–75 76–90
91–00

Horn Type Silver Brass
Bronze
Iron

Berserkers Summoned
2d4 + 2 3d4 + 3
4d4 + 4
5d4 + 5

Requirement
None Proficiency with all simple weapons Proficiency with all medium armor Proficiency with all martial weapons

If you blow the horn without meeting its requirement, the summoned berserkers attack you. If you meet the requirement, they are friendly to you and your companions and follow your commands.

Horseshoes of a Zephyr
Wondrous item, very rare
These iron horseshoes come in a set of four. While all four shoes are affixed to the hooves of a horse or similar creature, they allow the creature to move normally while floating 4 inches above the ground. This effect means the creature can cross or stand above nonsolid or unstable surfaces, such as water or lava. The creature leaves no tracks and ignores difficult terrain. In addition, the creature can move at normal speed for up to 12 hours a day without suffering exhaustion from a forced march.
Horseshoes of Speed
Wondrous item, rare
These iron horseshoes come in a set of four. While all four shoes are affixed to the hooves of a horse or similar creature, they increase the creature’s walking speed by 30 feet.
Immovable Rod
Rod, uncommon
This flat iron rod has a button on one end. You can use an action to press the button, which causes the rod to become magically fixed in place. Until you or another creature uses an action to push the button again, the rod doesn’t move, even if it is defying gravity. The rod can hold up to 8,000 pounds of weight. More weight causes the rod to deactivate and fall. A creature can use an action to make a DC 30 Strength check, moving the fixed rod up to 10 feet on a success.
Instant Fortress
Wondrous item, rare
You can use an action to place this 1-inch metal cube on the ground and speak its command word. The cube rapidly grows into a fortress that remains until you use an action to speak the command word that dismisses it, which works only if the fortress is empty.
The fortress is a square tower, 20 feet on a side and 30 feet high, with arrow slits on all sides and a battlement atop it. Its interior is divided into two floors, with a ladder running along one wall to connect them. The ladder ends at a trapdoor leading to the roof. When activated, the tower has a small door on the side facing you. The door opens only at your command, which you can speak as a bonus action. It is immune to the knock spell and similar magic, such as that of a chime of opening.
