7 Dire wolf 8 Giant elk
Rust Bag of Tricks
d8 Creature 1 Rat 2 Owl 3 Mastiff 4 Goat 5 Giant goat 6 Giant boar 7 Lion 8 Brown bear
Tan Bag of Tricks
d8 Creature 1 Jackal 2 Ape 3 Baboon 4 Axe beak 5 Black bear 6 Giant weasel 7 Giant hyena 8 Tiger
Bead of Force
Wondrous item, rare
This small black sphere measures 3/4 of an inch in diameter and weighs an ounce. Typically, 1d4 + 4 beads of force are found together.
You can use an action to throw the bead up to 60 feet. The bead explodes on impact and is destroyed. Each creature within a 10-foot radius of where the bead landed must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 5d4 force damage. A sphere of transparent force then encloses the area for 1 minute. Any creature that failed the save and is completely within the area is trapped inside this sphere. Creatures that succeeded on the save, or are partially within the area, are pushed away from the center of the sphere until they are no longer inside it. Only breathable air can pass through the sphere’s wall. No attack or other effect can.
An enclosed creature can use its action to push against the sphere’s wall, moving the sphere up to half the creature’s walking speed. The sphere can be picked up, and its magic causes it to weigh only 1 pound, regardless of the weight of creatures inside.

Belt of Dwarvenkind
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this belt, you gain the following benefits:
• Your Constitution score increases by 2, to a maximum of 20.
• You have advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to interact with dwarves.
In addition, while attuned to the belt, you have a 50 percent chance each day at dawn of growing a full beard if you’re capable of growing one, or a visibly thicker beard if you already have one.
If you aren’t a dwarf, you gain the following additional benefits while wearing the belt:
• You have advantage on saving throws against poison, and you have resistance against poison damage.
• You have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. • You can speak, read, and write Dwarvish.

Belt of Giant Strength
Wondrous item, rarity varies (requires attunement)

While wearing this belt, your Strength score changes to a score granted by the belt. If your Strength is already equal to or greater than the belt’s score, the item has no effect on you.
Six varieties of this belt exist, corresponding with and having rarity according to the six kinds of true giants. The belt of stone giant strength and the belt of frost giant strength look different, but they have the same effect.

Type Hill giant Stone/frost giant Fire giant Cloud giant Storm giant

Strength 21 23 25 27 29

Rarity Rare Very rare Very rare Legendary Legendary

Berserker Axe
Weapon (any axe), rare (requires attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, while you are attuned to this weapon, your hit point maximum increases by 1 for each level you have attained.
Curse. This axe is cursed, and becoming attuned to it extends the curse to you. As long as you remain cursed, you are unwilling to part with the axe, keeping it within reach at all times. You also have disadvantage on attack rolls with weapons other
