swarms move toward the music by the shortest available route but aren’t under your control otherwise. The pipes regain 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.
Whenever a swarm of rats that isn’t under another creature’s control comes within 30 feet of you while you are playing the pipes, you can make a Charisma check contested by the swarm’s Wisdom check. If you lose the contest, the swarm behaves as it normally would and can’t be swayed by the pipes’ music for the next 24 hours. If you win the contest, the swarm is swayed by the pipes’ music and becomes friendly to you and your companions for as long as you continue to play the pipes each round as an action. A friendly swarm obeys your commands. If you issue no commands to a friendly swarm, it defends itself but otherwise takes no actions. If a friendly swarm starts its turn and can’t hear the pipes’ music, your control over that swarm ends, and the swarm behaves as it normally would and can’t be swayed by the pipes’ music for the next 24 hours.
Plate Armor of Etherealness
Armor (plate), legendary (requires attunement)
While you’re wearing this armor, you can speak its command word as an action to gain the effect of the etherealness spell, which last for 10 minutes or until you remove the armor or use an action to speak the command word again. This property of the armor can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Portable Hole
Wondrous item, rare
This fine black cloth, soft as silk, is folded up to the dimensions of a handkerchief. It unfolds into a circular sheet 6 feet in diameter.
You can use an action to unfold a portable hole and place it on or against a solid surface, whereupon the portable hole creates an extradimensional hole 10 feet deep. The cylindrical space within the hole exists on a different plane, so it can’t be used to create open passages. Any creature inside an open portable hole can exit the hole by climbing out of it.
You can use an action to close a portable hole by taking hold of the edges of the cloth and folding it up. Folding the cloth closes the hole, and any creatures or objects within remain in the extradimensional space. No matter what’s in it, the hole weighs next to nothing.
If the hole is folded up, a creature within the hole’s extradimensional space can use an action to make a DC 10 Strength check. On a successful check, the

creature forces its way out and appears within 5 feet of the portable hole or the creature carrying it. A breathing creature within a closed portable hole can survive for up to 10 minutes, after which time it begins to suffocate.
Placing a portable hole inside an extradimensional space created by a bag of holding, handy haversack, or similar item instantly destroys both items and opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates where the one item was placed inside the other. Any creature within 10 feet of the gate is sucked through it and deposited in a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate then closes. The gate is one-way only and can’t be reopened.
Potion of Animal Friendship
Potion, uncommon
When you drink this potion, you can cast the animal friendship spell (save DC 13) for 1 hour at will. Agitating this muddy liquid brings little bits into view: a fish scale, a hummingbird tongue, a cat claw, or a squirrel hair.
Potion of Clairvoyance
Potion, rare
When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the clairvoyance spell. An eyeball bobs in this yellowish liquid but vanishes when the potion is opened.
Potion of Climbing
Potion, common
When you drink this potion, you gain a climbing speed equal to your walking speed for 1 hour. During this time, you have advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks you make to climb. The potion is separated into brown, silver, and gray layers resembling bands of stone. Shaking the bottle fails to mix the colors.
Potion of Diminution
Potion, rare
When you drink this potion, you gain the “reduce” effect of the enlarge/reduce spell for 1d4 hours (no concentration required). The red in the potion’s liquid continuously contracts to a tiny bead and then expands to color the clear liquid around it. Shaking the bottle fails to interrupt this process.
