person. The spell ends for a target that attacks or casts a spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.
Irresistible Dance
6th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose one creature that you can see within range. The target begins a comic dance in place: shuffling, tapping its feet, and capering for the duration. Creatures that can’t be charmed are immune to this spell.
A dancing creature must use all its movement to dance without leaving its space and has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws and attack rolls. While the target is affected by this spell, other creatures have advantage on attack rolls against it. As an action, a dancing creature makes a Wisdom saving throw to regain control of itself. On a successful save, the spell ends.
Jump
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a grasshopper’s hind leg) Duration: 1 minute
You touch a creature. The creature’s jump distance is tripled until the spell ends.
Knock
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
Choose an object that you can see within range. The object can be a door, a box, a chest, a set of manacles, a padlock, or another object that contains a mundane or magical means that prevents access.
A target that is held shut by a mundane lock or that is stuck or barred becomes unlocked, unstuck, or unbarred. If the object has multiple locks, only one of them is unlocked.

If you choose a target that is held shut with arcane lock, that spell is suppressed for 10 minutes, during which time the target can be opened and shut normally.
When you cast the spell, a loud knock, audible from as far away as 300 feet, emanates from the target object.
Legend Lore
5th-level divination
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: Self Components: V, S, M (incense worth at least 250 gp,
which the spell consumes, and four ivory strips worth at least 50 gp each) Duration: Instantaneous
Name or describe a person, place, or object. The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of the significant lore about the thing you named. The lore might consist of current tales, forgotten stories, or even secret lore that has never been widely known. If the thing you named isn’t of legendary importance, you gain no information. The more information you already have about the thing, the more precise and detailed the information you receive is.
The information you learn is accurate but might be couched in figurative language. For example, if you have a mysterious magic axe on hand, the spell might yield this information: “Woe to the evildoer whose hand touches the axe, for even the haft slices the hand of the evil ones. Only a true Child of Stone, lover and beloved of Moradin, may awaken the true powers of the axe, and only with the sacred word Rudnogg on the lips.”
Lesser Restoration
2nd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature and can end either one disease or one condition afflicting it. The condition can be blinded, deafened, paralyzed, or poisoned.
Levitate
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet
