The sphere is stationary until someone controls it. If you are within 60 feet of an uncontrolled sphere, you can use an action to make a DC 25 Intelligence (Arcana) check. On a success, the sphere levitates in one direction of your choice, up to a number of feet equal to 5 × your Intelligence modifier (minimum 5 feet). On a failure, the sphere moves 10 feet toward you. A creature whose space the sphere enters must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be touched by it, taking 4d10 force damage.
If you attempt to control a sphere that is under another creature’s control, you make an Intelligence (Arcana) check contested by the other creature’s Intelligence (Arcana) check. The winner of the contest gains control of the sphere and can levitate it as normal.
If the sphere comes into contact with a planar portal, such as that created by the gate spell, or an extradimensional space, such as that within a portable hole, the GM determines randomly what happens, using the following table.

d100 01–50 51–85
86–00

Result The sphere is destroyed. The sphere moves through the portal or into the extradimensional space. A spatial rift sends each creature and object within 180 feet of the sphere, including the sphere, to a random plane of existence.

Staff of Charming
Staff, rare (requires attunement by a bard, cleric, druid, sorcerer, warlock, or wizard)
While holding this staff, you can use an action to expend 1 of its 10 charges to cast charm person, command, or comprehend languages from it using your spell save DC. The staff can also be used as a magic quarterstaff.
If you are holding the staff and fail a saving throw against an enchantment spell that targets only you, you can turn your failed save into a successful one. You can’t use this property of the staff again until the next dawn. If you succeed on a save against an enchantment spell that targets only you, with or without the staff’s intervention, you can use your reaction to expend 1 charge from the staff and turn the spell back on its caster as if you had cast the spell.
The staff regains 1d8 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff becomes a nonmagical quarterstaff.

Staff of Fire
Staff, very rare (requires attunement by a druid, sorcerer, warlock, or wizard)
You have resistance to fire damage while you hold this staff.
The staff has 10 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: burning hands (1 charge), fireball (3 charges), or wall of fire (4 charges).
The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff blackens, crumbles into cinders, and is destroyed.
Staff of Frost
Staff, very rare (requires attunement by a druid, sorcerer, warlock, or wizard)
You have resistance to cold damage while you hold this staff.
The staff has 10 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: cone of cold (5 charges), fog cloud (1 charge), ice storm (4 charges), or wall of ice (4 charges).
The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff turns to water and is destroyed.
Staff of Healing
Staff, rare (requires attunement by a bard, cleric, or druid)
This staff has 10 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spellcasting ability modifier: cure wounds (1 charge per spell level, up to 4th), lesser restoration (2 charges), or mass cure wounds (5 charges).
The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff vanishes in a flash of light, lost forever.
Staff of Power
Staff, very rare (requires attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard)
This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, you gain a +2 bonus to Armor Class, saving throws, and spell attack rolls.
