Describe or name an object that is familiar to you. You sense the direction to the object’s location, as long as that object is within 1,000 feet of you. If the object is in motion, you know the direction of its movement.
The spell can locate a specific object known to you, as long as you have seen it up close—within 30 feet—at least once. Alternatively, the spell can locate the nearest object of a particular kind, such as a certain kind of apparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, or weapon.
This spell can’t locate an object if any thickness of lead, even a thin sheet, blocks a direct path between you and the object.
Longstrider
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dirt) Duration: 1 hour
You touch a creature. The target’s speed increases by 10 feet until the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 1st.
Mage Armor
1st-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a piece of cured leather) Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature who isn’t wearing armor, and a protective magical force surrounds it until the spell ends. The target’s base AC becomes 13 + its Dexterity modifier. The spell ends if the target dons armor or if you dismiss the spell as an action.
Mage Hand
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: 1 minute
A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you choose within range. The hand lasts for the duration or until you dismiss it as an action. The hand vanishes if it is ever more than 30 feet away from you or if you cast this spell again.

You can use your action to control the hand. You can use the hand to manipulate an object, open an unlocked door or container, stow or retrieve an item from an open container, or pour the contents out of a vial. You can move the hand up to 30 feet each time you use it.
The hand can’t attack, activate magic items, or carry more than 10 pounds.
Magic Circle
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 10 feet Components: V, S, M (holy water or powdered silver
and iron worth at least 100 gp, which the spell consumes) Duration: 1 hour
You create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall cylinder of magical energy centered on a point on the ground that you can see within range. Glowing runes appear wherever the cylinder intersects with the floor or other surface.
Choose one or more of the following types of creatures: celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, or undead. The circle affects a creature of the chosen type in the following ways:
• The creature can’t willingly enter the cylinder by nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use teleportation or interplanar travel to do so, it must first succeed on a Charisma saving throw.
• The creature has disadvantage on attack rolls against targets within the cylinder.
• Targets within the cylinder can’t be charmed, frightened, or possessed by the creature.
When you cast this spell, you can elect to cause its magic to operate in the reverse direction, preventing a creature of the specified type from leaving the cylinder and protecting targets outside it.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration increases by 1 hour for each slot level above 3rd.
Magic Jar
6th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: Self Components: V, S, M (a gem, crystal, reliquary, or
some other ornamental container worth at least 500 gp) Duration: Until dispelled
