issues a clear tone, and one lock or latch on the object opens unless the sound can’t reach the object. If no locks or latches remain, the object itself opens.
The chime can be used ten times. After the tenth time, it cracks and becomes useless.
Circlet of Blasting
Wondrous item, uncommon
While wearing this circlet, you can use an action to cast the scorching ray spell with it. When you make the spell’s attacks, you do so with an attack bonus of +5. The circlet can’t be used this way again until the next dawn.
Cloak of Arachnida
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
This fine garment is made of black silk interwoven with faint silvery threads. While wearing it, you gain the following benefits:
• You have resistance to poison damage. • You have a climbing speed equal to your walking
speed. • You can move up, down, and across vertical
surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving your hands free. • You can’t be caught in webs of any sort and can move through webs as if they were difficult terrain. • You can use an action to cast the web spell (save DC 13). The web created by the spell fills twice its normal area. Once used, this property of the cloak can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Cloak of Displacement
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While you wear this cloak, it projects an illusion that makes you appear to be standing in a place near your actual location, causing any creature to have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. If you take damage, the property ceases to function until the start of your next turn. This property is suppressed while you are incapacitated, restrained, or otherwise unable to move.
Cloak of Elvenkind
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While you wear this cloak with its hood up, Wisdom (Perception) checks made to see you have disadvantage, and you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide, as the cloak’s color

shifts to camouflage you. Pulling the hood up or down requires an action.
Cloak of Protection
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws while you wear this cloak.
Cloak of the Bat
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this cloak, you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. In an area of dim light or darkness, you can grip the edges of the cloak with both hands and use it to fly at a speed of 40 feet. If you ever fail to grip the cloak’s edges while flying in this way, or if you are no longer in dim light or darkness, you lose this flying speed.
While wearing the cloak in an area of dim light or darkness, you can use your action to cast polymorph on yourself, transforming into a bat. While you are in the form of the bat, you retain your Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. The cloak can’t be used this way again until the next dawn.
Cloak of the Manta Ray
Wondrous item, uncommon
While wearing this cloak with its hood up, you can breathe underwater, and you have a swimming speed of 60 feet. Pulling the hood up or down requires an action.
Crystal Ball
Wondrous item, very rare or legendary (requires attunement)
The typical crystal ball, a very rare item, is about 6 inches in diameter. While touching it, you can cast the scrying spell (save DC 17) with it.
The following crystal ball variants are legendary items and have additional properties.
Crystal Ball of Mind Reading. You can use an action to cast the detect thoughts spell (save DC 17) while you are scrying with the crystal ball, targeting creatures you can see within 30 feet of the spell’s sensor. You don’t need to concentrate on this detect thoughts to maintain it during its duration, but it ends if scrying ends.
Crystal Ball of Telepathy. While scrying with the crystal ball, you can communicate telepathically with creatures you can see within 30 feet of the spell’s sensor. You can also use an action to cast the suggestion spell (save DC 17) through the sensor on
