Broom of Flying
Wondrous item, uncommon
This wooden broom, which weighs 3 pounds, functions like a mundane broom until you stand astride it and speak its command word. It then hovers beneath you and can be ridden in the air. It has a flying speed of 50 feet. It can carry up to 400 pounds, but its flying speed becomes 30 feet while carrying over 200 pounds. The broom stops hovering when you land.
You can send the broom to travel alone to a destination within 1 mile of you if you speak the command word, name the location, and are familiar with that place. The broom comes back to you when you speak another command word, provided that the broom is still within 1 mile of you.

Candle of Invocation
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)

This slender taper is dedicated to a deity and shares that deity’s alignment. The candle’s alignment can be detected with the detect evil and good spell. The GM chooses the god and associated alignment or determines the alignment randomly.

d20 1–2 3–4
5–7 8–9 10–11 12–13 14–15 16–17 18–20

Alignment Chaotic evil Chaotic neutral
Chaotic good Neutral evil Neutral Neutral good Lawful evil Lawful neutral Lawful good

The candle’s magic is activated when the candle is lit, which requires an action. After burning for 4 hours, the candle is destroyed. You can snuff it out early for use at a later time. Deduct the time it burned in increments of 1 minute from the candle’s total burn time.
While lit, the candle sheds dim light in a 30-foot radius. Any creature within that light whose alignment matches that of the candle makes attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks with advantage. In addition, a cleric or druid in the light whose alignment matches the candle’s can cast 1st- level spells he or she has prepared without expending spell slots, though the spell’s effect is as if cast with a 1st-level slot.

Alternatively, when you light the candle for the first time, you can cast the gate spell with it. Doing so destroys the candle.

Cape of the Mountebank
Wondrous item, rare
This cape smells faintly of brimstone. While wearing it, you can use it to cast the dimension door spell as an action. This property of the cape can’t be used again until the next dawn.
When you disappear, you leave behind a cloud of smoke, and you appear in a similar cloud of smoke at your destination. The smoke lightly obscures the space you left and the space you appear in, and it dissipates at the end of your next turn. A light or stronger wind disperses the smoke.

Carpet of Flying
Wondrous item, very rare

You can speak the carpet’s command word as an action to make the carpet hover and fly. It moves according to your spoken directions, provided that you are within 30 feet of it.
Four sizes of carpet of flying exist. The GM chooses the size of a given carpet or determines it randomly.

d100 01–20 21–55 56–80 81–100

Size 3 ft. × 5 ft. 4 ft. × 6 ft. 5 ft. × 7 ft. 6 ft. × 9 ft.

Capacity 200 lb. 400 lb. 600 lb. 800 lb.

Flying Speed 80 feet 60 feet 40 feet 30 feet

A carpet can carry up to twice the weight shown on the table, but it flies at half speed if it carries more than its normal capacity.
Censer of Controlling Air Elementals
Wondrous item, rare
While incense is burning in this censer, you can use an action to speak the censer’s command word and summon an air elemental, as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell. The censer can’t be used this way again until the next dawn.
This 6-inch-wide, 1-foot-high vessel resembles a chalice with a decorated lid. It weighs 1 pound.
Chime of Opening
Wondrous item, rare
This hollow metal tube measures about 1 foot long and weighs 1 pound. You can strike it as an action, pointing it at an object within 120 feet of you that can be opened, such as a door, lid, or lock. The chime
