You make an area within range magically secure. The area is a cube that can be as small as 5 feet to as large as 100 feet on each side. The spell lasts for the duration or until you use an action to dismiss it.
When you cast the spell, you decide what sort of security the spell provides, choosing any or all of the following properties:
• Sound can’t pass through the barrier at the edge of the warded area.
• The barrier of the warded area appears dark and foggy, preventing vision (including darkvision) through it.
• Sensors created by divination spells can’t appear inside the protected area or pass through the barrier at its perimeter.
• Creatures in the area can’t be targeted by divination spells.
• Nothing can teleport into or out of the warded area.
• Planar travel is blocked within the warded area.
Casting this spell on the same spot every day for a year makes this effect permanent.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can increase the size of the cube by 100 feet for each slot level beyond 4th. Thus you could protect a cube that can be up to 200 feet on one side by using a spell slot of 5th level.
Produce Flame
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: 10 minutes
A flickering flame appears in your hand. The flame remains there for the duration and harms neither you nor your equipment. The flame sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. The spell ends if you dismiss it as an action or if you cast it again.
You can also attack with the flame, although doing so ends the spell. When you cast this spell, or as an action on a later turn, you can hurl the flame at a creature within 30 feet of you. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 fire damage.
This spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Programmed Illusion
6th-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece and jade dust
worth at least 25 gp) Duration: Until dispelled
You create an illusion of an object, a creature, or some other visible phenomenon within range that activates when a specific condition occurs. The illusion is imperceptible until then. It must be no larger than a 30-foot cube, and you decide when you cast the spell how the illusion behaves and what sounds it makes. This scripted performance can last up to 5 minutes.
When the condition you specify occurs, the illusion springs into existence and performs in the manner you described. Once the illusion finishes performing, it disappears and remains dormant for 10 minutes. After this time, the illusion can be activated again.
The triggering condition can be as general or as detailed as you like, though it must be based on visual or audible conditions that occur within 30 feet of the area. For example, you could create an illusion of yourself to appear and warn off others who attempt to open a trapped door, or you could set the illusion to trigger only when a creature says the correct word or phrase.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because things can pass through it. A creature that uses its action to examine the image can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image, and any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature.
Project Image
7th-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 500 miles Components: V, S, M (a small replica of you made
from materials worth at least 5 gp) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day
You create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for the duration. The copy can appear at any location within range that you have seen before, regardless of intervening obstacles. The illusion looks and sounds like you but is intangible. If the illusion takes any damage, it disappears, and the spell ends.
