than this one, unless no foe is within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear.
Whenever a hostile creature damages you while the axe is in your possession, you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or go berserk. While berserk, you must use your action each round to attack the creature nearest to you with the axe. If you can make extra attacks as part of the Attack action, you use those extra attacks, moving to attack the next nearest creature after you fell your current target. If you have multiple possible targets, you attack one at random. You are berserk until you start your turn with no creatures within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear.
Boots of Elvenkind
Wondrous item, uncommon
While you wear these boots, your steps make no sound, regardless of the surface you are moving across. You also have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks that rely on moving silently.
Boots of Levitation
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While you wear these boots, you can use an action to cast the levitate spell on yourself at will.
Boots of Speed
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While you wear these boots, you can use a bonus action and click the boots’ heels together. If you do, the boots double your walking speed, and any creature that makes an opportunity attack against you has disadvantage on the attack roll. If you click your heels together again, you end the effect.
When the boots’ property has been used for a total of 10 minutes, the magic ceases to function until you finish a long rest.
Boots of Striding and Springing
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While you wear these boots, your walking speed becomes 30 feet, unless your walking speed is higher, and your speed isn’t reduced if you are encumbered or wearing heavy armor. In addition, you can jump three times the normal distance, though you can’t jump farther than your remaining movement would allow.

Boots of the Winterlands
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
These furred boots are snug and feel quite warm. While you wear them, you gain the following benefits:
• You have resistance to cold damage. • You ignore difficult terrain created by ice or snow. • You can tolerate temperatures as low as -50
degrees Fahrenheit without any additional protection. If you wear heavy clothes, you can tolerate temperatures as low as -100 degrees Fahrenheit.
Bowl of Commanding Water Elementals
Wondrous item, rare
While this bowl is filled with water, you can use an action to speak the bowl’s command word and summon a water elemental, as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell. The bowl can’t be used this way again until the next dawn.
The bowl is about 1 foot in diameter and half as deep. It weighs 3 pounds and holds about 3 gallons.
Bracers of Archery
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While wearing these bracers, you have proficiency with the longbow and shortbow, and you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls on ranged attacks made with such weapons.
Bracers of Defense
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While wearing these bracers, you gain a +2 bonus to AC if you are wearing no armor and using no shield.
Brazier of Commanding Fire Elementals
Wondrous item, rare
While a fire burns in this brass brazier, you can use an action to speak the brazier’s command word and summon a fire elemental, as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell. The brazier can’t be used this way again until the next dawn.
The brazier weighs 5 pounds.
Brooch of Shielding
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While wearing this brooch, you have resistance to force damage, and you have immunity to damage from the magic missile spell.
