Leather Studded leather Medium Armor Hide Chain shirt Scale mail Breastplate Half plate Heavy Armor Ring mail Chain mail Splint Plate Shield Shield

10 gp 45 gp
10 gp 50 gp 50 gp 400 gp 750 gp
30 gp 75 gp 200 gp 1,500 gp
10 gp

11 + Dex modifier

—

12 + Dex modifier

—

12 + Dex modifier (max 2) — 13 + Dex modifier (max 2) — 14 + Dex modifier (max 2) — 14 + Dex modifier (max 2) — 15 + Dex modifier (max 2) —

14

—

16

Str 13

17

Str 15

18

Str 15

+2

—

—

10 lb.

—

13 lb.

— — Disadvantage — Disadvantage

12 lb. 20 lb. 45 lb. 20 lb. 40 lb.

Disadvantage Disadvantage Disadvantage Disadvantage

40 lb. 55 lb. 60 lb. 65 lb.

—

6 lb.

Getting Into and Out of Armor

The time it takes to don or doff armor depends on the armor’s category.
Don. This is the time it takes to put on armor. You benefit from the armor’s AC only if you take the full time to don the suit of armor.
Doff. This is the time it takes to take off armor. If you have help, reduce this time by half.

Donning and Doffing Armor

Category Light Armor Medium Armor Heavy Armor Shield

Don 1 minute 5 minutes 10 minutes 1 action

Doff 1 minute 1 minute 5 minutes 1 action

Weapons
Your class grants proficiency in certain weapons, reflecting both the class’s focus and the tools you are most likely to use. Whether you favor a longsword or a longbow, your weapon and your ability to wield it effectively can mean the difference between life and death while adventuring.
The Weapons table shows the most common weapons used in the fantasy gaming worlds, their price and weight, the damage they deal when they hit, and any special properties they possess. Every weapon is classified as either melee or ranged. A melee weapon is used to attack a target within 5 feet of you, whereas a ranged weapon is used to attack a target at a distance.
Weapon Proficiency
Your race, class, and feats can grant you proficiency with certain weapons or categories of weapons. The two categories are simple and martial. Most people

can use simple weapons with proficiency. These weapons include clubs, maces, and other weapons often found in the hands of commoners. Martial weapons, including swords, axes, and polearms, require more specialized training to use effectively. Most warriors use martial weapons because these weapons put their fighting style and training to best use.
Proficiency with a weapon allows you to add your proficiency bonus to the attack roll for any attack you make with that weapon. If you make an attack roll using a weapon with which you lack proficiency, you do not add your proficiency bonus to the attack roll.
Weapon Properties
Many weapons have special properties related to their use, as shown in the Weapons table.
Ammunition. You can use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a ranged attack only if you have ammunition to fire from the weapon. Each time you attack with the weapon, you expend one piece of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition from a quiver, case, or other container is part of the attack (you need a free hand to load a one-handed weapon). At the end of the battle, you can recover half your expended ammunition by taking a minute to search the battlefield.
If you use a weapon that has the ammunition property to make a melee attack, you treat the weapon as an improvised weapon (see “Improvised Weapons” later in the section). A sling must be loaded to deal any damage when used in this way.
Finesse. When making an attack with a finesse weapon, you use your choice of your Strength or Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls. You must use the same modifier for both rolls.
