Animated Shield
Armor (shield), very rare (requires attunement)
While holding this shield, you can speak its command word as a bonus action to cause it to animate. The shield leaps into the air and hovers in your space to protect you as if you were wielding it, leaving your hands free. The shield remains animated for 1 minute, until you use a bonus action to end this effect, or until you are incapacitated or die, at which point the shield falls to the ground or into your hand if you have one free.

Apparatus of the Crab
Wondrous item, legendary

This item first appears to be a Large sealed iron barrel weighing 500 pounds. The barrel has a hidden catch, which can be found with a successful DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check. Releasing the catch unlocks a hatch at one end of the barrel, allowing two Medium or smaller creatures to crawl inside. Ten levers are set in a row at the far end, each in a neutral position, able to move either up or down. When certain levers are used, the apparatus transforms to resemble a giant lobster.
The apparatus of the Crab is a Large object with the following statistics:

Armor Class: 20 Hit Points: 200 Speed: 30 ft., swim 30 ft. (or 0 ft. for both if the legs
and tail aren’t extended) Damage Immunities: poison, psychic

To be used as a vehicle, the apparatus requires one pilot. While the apparatus’s hatch is closed, the compartment is airtight and watertight. The compartment holds enough air for 10 hours of breathing, divided by the number of breathing creatures inside.
The apparatus floats on water. It can also go underwater to a depth of 900 feet. Below that, the vehicle takes 2d6 bludgeoning damage per minute from pressure.
A creature in the compartment can use an action to move as many as two of the apparatus’s levers up or down. After each use, a lever goes back to its neutral position. Each lever, from left to right, functions as shown in the Apparatus of the Crab Levers table.

Apparatus of the Crab Levers

Lever Up 1 Legs and tail extend,

Down Legs and tail retract,

allowing the apparatus reducing the apparatus’s

to walk and swim.

speed to 0 and making it

unable to benefit from

bonuses to speed.

2 Forward window shutter Forward window shutter

opens.

closes.

3 Side window shutters

Side window shutters

open (two per side).

close (two per side).

4 Two claws extend from The claws retract.

the front sides of the

apparatus.

5 Each extended claw

Each extended claw

makes the following

makes the following

melee weapon attack: melee weapon attack: +8

+8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one to hit, reach 5 ft., one

target. Hit: 7 (2d6)

target. Hit: The target is

bludgeoning damage.

grappled (escape DC 15).

6 The apparatus walks or The apparatus walks or

swims forward.

swims backward.

7 The apparatus turns 90 The apparatus turns 90

degrees left.

degrees right.

8 Eyelike fixtures emit

The light turns off.

bright light in a 30-foot

radius and dim light for

an additional 30 feet.

9 The apparatus sinks as The apparatus rises up

much as 20 feet in

to 20 feet in liquid.

liquid.

10 The rear hatch unseals The rear hatch closes

and opens.

and seals.

Armor, +1, +2, or +3
Armor (light, medium, or heavy), rare (+1), very rare (+2), or legendary (+3)
You have a bonus to AC while wearing this armor. The bonus is determined by its rarity.

Armor of Invulnerability
Armor (plate), legendary (requires attunement)
You have resistance to nonmagical damage while you wear this armor. Additionally, you can use an action to make yourself immune to nonmagical damage for 10 minutes or until you are no longer wearing the armor. Once this special action is used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn.

Armor of Resistance
Armor (light, medium, or heavy), rare (requires attunement)
You have resistance to one type of damage while you wear this armor. The GM chooses the type or determines it randomly from the options below.
