Potion of Resistance
Potion, uncommon

When you drink this potion, you gain resistance to one type of damage for 1 hour. The GM chooses the type or determines it randomly from the options below.

d10 Damage Type 1 Acid 2 Cold 3 Fire 4 Force 5 Lightning

d10 Damage Type 6 Necrotic 7 Poison 8 Psychic 9 Radiant 10 Thunder

Potion of Speed
Potion, very rare
When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the haste spell for 1 minute (no concentration required). The potion’s yellow fluid is streaked with black and swirls on its own.

Potion of Water Breathing
Potion, uncommon
You can breathe underwater for 1 hour after drinking this potion. Its cloudy green fluid smells of the sea and has a jellyfish-like bubble floating in it.

Restorative Ointment
Wondrous item, uncommon
This glass jar, 3 inches in diameter, contains 1d4 + 1 doses of a thick mixture that smells faintly of aloe. The jar and its contents weigh 1/2 pound.
As an action, one dose of the ointment can be swallowed or applied to the skin. The creature that receives it regains 2d8 + 2 hit points, ceases to be poisoned, and is cured of any disease.

Ring of Animal Influence
Ring, rare
This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can use an action to expend 1 of its charges to cast one of the following spells:
• Animal friendship (save DC 13) • Fear (save DC 13), targeting only beasts that have
an Intelligence of 3 or lower • Speak with animals

Ring of Djinni Summoning
Ring, legendary (requires attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can speak its command word as an action to summon a particular djinni from the Elemental Plane of Air. The djinni appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 120 feet of you. It remains as long as you concentrate (as if concentrating on a spell), to a maximum of 1 hour, or until it drops to 0 hit points. It then returns to its home plane.
While summoned, the djinni is friendly to you and your companions. It obeys any commands you give it, no matter what language you use. If you fail to command it, the djinni defends itself against attackers but takes no other actions.
After the djinni departs, it can’t be summoned again for 24 hours, and the ring becomes nonmagical if the djinni dies.
Ring of Elemental Command
Ring, legendary (requires attunement)
This ring is linked to one of the four Elemental Planes. The GM chooses or randomly determines the linked plane.
While wearing this ring, you have advantage on attack rolls against elementals from the linked plane, and they have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. In addition, you have access to properties based on the linked plane.
The ring has 5 charges. It regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Spells cast from the ring have a save DC of 17.
Ring of Air Elemental Command. You can expend 2 of the ring’s charges to cast dominate monster on an air elemental. In addition, when you fall, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling. You can also speak and understand Auran.
If you help slay an air elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties:
• You have resistance to lightning damage. • You have a flying speed equal to your walking
speed and can hover. • You can cast the following spells from the ring,
expending the necessary number of charges: chain lightning (3 charges), gust of wind (2 charges), or wind wall (1 charge).
Ring of Earth Elemental Command. You can expend 2 of the ring’s charges to cast dominate monster on an earth elemental. In addition, you can move in difficult terrain that is composed of rubble,
