Robe of Stars
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
This black or dark blue robe is embroidered with small white or silver stars. You gain a +1 bonus to saving throws while you wear it.
Six stars, located on the robe’s upper front portion, are particularly large. While wearing this robe, you can use an action to pull off one of the stars and use it to cast magic missile as a 5th-level spell. Daily at dusk, 1d6 removed stars reappear on the robe.
While you wear the robe, you can use an action to enter the Astral Plane along with everything you are wearing and carrying. You remain there until you use an action to return to the plane you were on. You reappear in the last space you occupied, or if that space is occupied, the nearest unoccupied space.
Robe of the Archmagi
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement by a sorcerer, warlock, or wizard)
This elegant garment is made from exquisite cloth of white, gray, or black and adorned with silvery runes. The robe’s color corresponds to the alignment for which the item was created. A white robe was made for good, gray for neutral, and black for evil. You can’t attune to a robe of the archmagi that doesn’t correspond to your alignment.
You gain these benefits while wearing the robe:
• If you aren’t wearing armor, your base Armor Class is 15 + your Dexterity modifier.
• You have advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
• Your spell save DC and spell attack bonus each increase by 2.
Robe of Useful Items
Wondrous item, uncommon
This robe has cloth patches of various shapes and colors covering it. While wearing the robe, you can use an action to detach one of the patches, causing it to become the object or creature it represents. Once the last patch is removed, the robe becomes an ordinary garment.
The robe has two of each of the following patches:
• Dagger • Bullseye lantern (filled and lit) • Steel mirror • 10-foot pole • Hempen rope (50 feet, coiled) • Sack

In addition, the robe has 4d4 other patches. The GM chooses the patches or determines them randomly.

d100 01–08 09–15
16–22
23–30 31–44 45–51 52–59
60–68 69–75 76–83
84–90 91–96
97–00

Patch Bag of 100 gp Silver coffer (1 foot long, 6 inches wide and deep) worth 500 gp Iron door (up to 10 feet wide and 10 feet high, barred on one side of your choice), which you can place in an opening you can reach; it conforms to fit the opening, attaching and hinging itself 10 gems worth 100 gp each Wooden ladder (24 feet long) A riding horse with saddle bags Pit (a cube 10 feet on a side), which you can place on the ground within 10 feet of you 4 potions of healing Rowboat (12 feet long) Spell scroll containing one spell of 1st to 3rd level 2 mastiffs
Window (2 feet by 4 feet, up to 2 feet deep), which you can place on a vertical surface you can reach Portable ram

Rod of Absorption
Rod, very rare (requires attunement)
While holding this rod, you can use your reaction to absorb a spell that is targeting only you and not with an area of effect. The absorbed spell’s effect is canceled, and the spell’s energy—not the spell itself—is stored in the rod. The energy has the same level as the spell when it was cast. The rod can absorb and store up to 50 levels of energy over the course of its existence. Once the rod absorbs 50 levels of energy, it can’t absorb more. If you are targeted by a spell that the rod can’t store, the rod has no effect on that spell.
When you become attuned to the rod, you know how many levels of energy the rod has absorbed over the course of its existence, and how many levels of spell energy it currently has stored.
If you are a spellcaster holding the rod, you can convert energy stored in it into spell slots to cast spells you have prepared or know. You can create spell slots only of a level equal to or lower than your own spell slots, up to a maximum of 5th level. You use the stored levels in place of your slots, but otherwise cast the spell as normal. For example, you can use 3 levels stored in the rod as a 3rd-level spell slot.
