can pick a special purpose or roll on the following table.
d10 Purpose 1 Aligned: The item seeks to defeat or destroy those of a diametrically opposed alignment. (Such an item is never neutral.) 2 Bane: The item seeks to defeat or destroy creatures of a particular kind, such as fiends, shapechangers, trolls, or wizards. 3 Protector: The item seeks to defend a particular race or kind of creature, such as elves or druids. 4 Crusader: The item seeks to defeat, weaken, or destroy the servants of a particular deity. 5 Templar: The item seeks to defend the servants and interests of a particular deity. 6 Destroyer: The item craves destruction and goads its user to fight arbitrarily. 7 Glory Seeker: The item seeks renown as the greatest magic item in the world, by establishing its user as a famous or notorious figure. 8 Lore Seeker: The item craves knowledge or is determined to solve a mystery, learn a secret, or unravel a cryptic prophecy. 9 Destiny Seeker: The item is convinced that it and its wielder have key roles to play in future events. 10 Creator Seeker: The item seeks its creator and wants to understand why it was created.
Conflict
A sentient item has a will of its own, shaped by its personality and alignment. If its wielder acts in a manner opposed to the item’s alignment or purpose, conflict can arise. When such a conflict occurs, the item makes a Charisma check contested by the wielder’s Charisma check. If the item wins the contest, it makes one or more of the following demands:
• The item insists on being carried or worn at all times.
• The item demands that its wielder dispose of anything the item finds repugnant.
• The item demands that its wielder pursue the item’s goals to the exclusion of all other goals.
• The item demands to be given to someone else.
If its wielder refuses to comply with the item’s wishes, the item can do any or all of the following:
• Make it impossible for its wielder to attune to it. • Suppress one or more of its activated properties. • Attempt to take control of its wielder.
If a sentient item attempts to take control of its wielder, the wielder must make a Charisma saving

throw, with a DC equal to 12 + the item’s Charisma modifier. On a failed save, the wielder is charmed by the item for 1d12 hours. While charmed, the wielder must try to follow the item’s commands. If the wielder takes damage, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on a success. Whether the attempt to control its user succeeds or fails, the item can’t use this power again until the next dawn.
Artifacts
Orb of Dragonkind
Wondrous item, artifact (requires attunement)
Ages past, elves and humans waged a terrible war against evil dragons. When the world seemed doomed, powerful wizards came together and worked their greatest magic, forging five Orbs of Dragonkind (or Dragon Orbs) to help them defeat the dragons. One orb was taken to each of the five wizard towers, and there they were used to speed the war toward a victorious end. The wizards used the orbs to lure dragons to them, then destroyed the dragons with powerful magic.
As the wizard towers fell in later ages, the orbs were destroyed or faded into legend, and only three are thought to survive. Their magic has been warped and twisted over the centuries, so although their primary purpose of calling dragons still functions, they also allow some measure of control over dragons.
Each orb contains the essence of an evil dragon, a presence that resents any attempt to coax magic from it. Those lacking in force of personality might find themselves enslaved to an orb.
An orb is an etched crystal globe about 10 inches in diameter. When used, it grows to about 20 inches in diameter, and mist swirls inside it.
While attuned to an orb, you can use an action to peer into the orb’s depths and speak its command word. You must then make a DC 15 Charisma check. On a successful check, you control the orb for as long as you remain attuned to it. On a failed check, you become charmed by the orb for as long as you remain attuned to it.
While you are charmed by the orb, you can’t voluntarily end your attunement to it, and the orb casts suggestion on you at will (save DC 18), urging you to work toward the evil ends it desires. The dragon essence within the orb might want many things: the annihilation of a particular people, freedom from the orb, to spread suffering in the
