Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained, unconscious Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10 Languages understands all languages it knew in life but can’t speak Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Incorporeal Movement. The specter can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object. Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the specter has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Actions Life Drain. Melee Spell Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 10 (3d6) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the creature finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0.
Sphinxes
Androsphinx
Large monstrosity, lawful neutral
Armor Class 17 (natural armor) Hit Points 199 (19d10 + 95) Speed 40 ft., fly 60 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 22 (+6) 10 (+0) 20 (+5) 16 (+3) 18 (+4) 23 (+6)
Saving Throws Dex +6, Con +11, Int +9, Wis +10 Skills Arcana +9, Perception +10, Religion +15 Damage Immunities psychic; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks Condition Immunities charmed, frightened Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 20

Languages Common, Sphinx Challenge 17 (18,000 XP)
Inscrutable. The sphinx is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the sphinx’s intentions or sincerity have disadvantage. Magic Weapons. The sphinx’s weapon attacks are magical.
Spellcasting. The sphinx is a 12th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 18, +10 to hit with spell attacks). It requires no material components to cast its spells. The sphinx has the following cleric spells prepared: Cantrips (at will): sacred flame, spare the dying,
thaumaturgy
1st level (4 slots): command, detect evil and good, detect magic
2nd level (3 slots): lesser restoration, zone of truth 3rd level (3 slots): dispel magic, tongues
4th level (3 slots): banishment, freedom of movement 5th level (2 slots): flame strike, greater restoration 6th level (1 slot): heroes’ feast
Actions
Multiattack. The sphinx makes two claw attacks.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d10 + 6) slashing damage.
Roar (3/Day). The sphinx emits a magical roar. Each time it roars before finishing a long rest, the roar is louder and the effect is different, as detailed below. Each creature within 500 feet of the sphinx and able to hear the roar must make a saving throw.
First Roar. Each creature that fails a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw is frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Second Roar. Each creature that fails a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw is deafened and frightened for 1 minute. A frightened creature is paralyzed and can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
