A dispel magic spell can end the spell only if it is cast as a 9th-level spell, targeting either the prison or the special component used to create it.
You can use a particular special component to create only one prison at a time. If you cast the spell again using the same component, the target of the first casting is immediately freed from its binding.
Incendiary Cloud
8th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 150 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A swirling cloud of smoke shot through with white- hot embers appears in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point within range. The cloud spreads around corners and is heavily obscured. It lasts for the duration or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses it.
When the cloud appears, each creature in it must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 10d8 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature must also make this saving throw when it enters the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.
The cloud moves 10 feet directly away from you in a direction that you choose at the start of each of your turns.
Inflict Wounds
1st-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Make a melee spell attack against a creature you can reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d10 necrotic damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 1st.
Insect Plague
5th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 300 feet Components: V, S, M (a few grains of sugar, some
kernels of grain, and a smear of fat) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

Swarming, biting locusts fill a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range. The sphere spreads around corners. The sphere remains for the duration, and its area is lightly obscured. The sphere’s area is difficult terrain.
When the area appears, each creature in it must make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 4d10 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature must also make this saving throw when it enters the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 5th.
Instant Summons
6th-level conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a sapphire worth 1,000 gp) Duration: Until dispelled
You touch an object weighing 10 pounds or less whose longest dimension is 6 feet or less. The spell leaves an invisible mark on its surface and invisibly inscribes the name of the item on the sapphire you use as the material component. Each time you cast this spell, you must use a different sapphire.
At any time thereafter, you can use your action to speak the item’s name and crush the sapphire. The item instantly appears in your hand regardless of physical or planar distances, and the spell ends.
If another creature is holding or carrying the item, crushing the sapphire doesn’t transport the item to you, but instead you learn who the creature possessing the object is and roughly where that creature is located at that moment.
Dispel magic or a similar effect successfully applied to the sapphire ends this spell’s effect.
Invisibility
2nd-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (an eyelash encased in gum
arabic) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A creature you touch becomes invisible until the spell ends. Anything the target is wearing or carrying is invisible as long as it is on the target’s
