it has been used, it can’t be used again until 2 days have passed. While in raven form, the figurine allows you to cast the animal messenger spell on it at will.
Flame Tongue
Weapon (any sword), rare (requires attunement)
You can use a bonus action to speak this magic sword’s command word, causing flames to erupt from the blade. These flames shed bright light in a 40-foot radius and dim light for an additional 40 feet. While the sword is ablaze, it deals an extra 2d6 fire damage to any target it hits. The flames last until you use a bonus action to speak the command word again or until you drop or sheathe the sword.
Folding Boat
Wondrous item, rare
This object appears as a wooden box that measures 12 inches long, 6 inches wide, and 6 inches deep. It weighs 4 pounds and floats. It can be opened to store items inside. This item also has three command words, each requiring you to use an action to speak it.
One command word causes the box to unfold into a boat 10 feet long, 4 feet wide, and 2 feet deep. The boat has one pair of oars, an anchor, a mast, and a lateen sail. The boat can hold up to four Medium creatures comfortably.
The second command word causes the box to unfold into a ship 24 feet long, 8 feet wide, and 6 feet deep. The ship has a deck, rowing seats, five sets of oars, a steering oar, an anchor, a deck cabin, and a mast with a square sail. The ship can hold fifteen Medium creatures comfortably.
When the box becomes a vessel, its weight becomes that of a normal vessel its size, and anything that was stored in the box remains in the boat.
The third command word causes the folding boat to fold back into a box, provided that no creatures are aboard. Any objects in the vessel that can’t fit inside the box remain outside the box as it folds. Any objects in the vessel that can fit inside the box do so.
Frost Brand
Weapon (any sword), very rare (requires attunement)
When you hit with an attack using this magic sword, the target takes an extra 1d6 cold damage. In addition, while you hold the sword, you have resistance to fire damage.

In freezing temperatures, the blade sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.
When you draw this weapon, you can extinguish all nonmagical flames within 30 feet of you. This property can be used no more than once per hour.
Gauntlets of Ogre Power
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
Your Strength score is 19 while you wear these gauntlets. They have no effect on you if your Strength is already 19 or higher.
Gem of Brightness
Wondrous item, uncommon
This prism has 50 charges. While you are holding it, you can use an action to speak one of three command words to cause one of the following effects:
• The first command word causes the gem to shed bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. This effect doesn’t expend a charge. It lasts until you use a bonus action to repeat the command word or until you use another function of the gem.
• The second command word expends 1 charge and causes the gem to fire a brilliant beam of light at one creature you can see within 60 feet of you. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become blinded for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
• The third command word expends 5 charges and causes the gem to flare with blinding light in a 30- foot cone originating from it. Each creature in the cone must make a saving throw as if struck by the beam created with the second command word.
When all of the gem’s charges are expended, the gem becomes a nonmagical jewel worth 50 gp.
Gem of Seeing
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
This gem has 3 charges. As an action, you can speak the gem’s command word and expend 1 charge. For the next 10 minutes, you have truesight out to 120 feet when you peer through the gem.
The gem regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.
