rocks, or dirt as if it were normal terrain. You can also speak and understand Terran.
If you help slay an earth elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties:
• You have resistance to acid damage. • You can move through solid earth or rock as if
those areas were difficult terrain. If you end your turn there, you are shunted out to the nearest unoccupied space you last occupied. • You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges: stone shape (2 charges), stoneskin (3 charges), or wall of stone (3 charges).
Ring of Fire Elemental Command. You can expend 2 of the ring’s charges to cast dominate monster on a fire elemental. In addition, you have resistance to fire damage. You can also speak and understand Ignan.
If you help slay a fire elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties:
• You are immune to fire damage. • You can cast the following spells from the ring,
expending the necessary number of charges: burning hands (1 charge), fireball (2 charges), and wall of fire (3 charges).
Ring of Water Elemental Command. You can expend 2 of the ring’s charges to cast dominate monster on a water elemental. In addition, you can stand on and walk across liquid surfaces as if they were solid ground. You can also speak and understand Aquan.
If you help slay a water elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties:
• You can breathe underwater and have a swimming speed equal to your walking speed.
• You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges: create or destroy water (1 charge), control water (3 charges), ice storm (2 charges), or wall of ice (3 charges).
Ring of Evasion
Ring, rare (requires attunement)
This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. When you fail a Dexterity saving throw while wearing it, you can use your

reaction to expend 1 of its charges to succeed on that saving throw instead.
Ring of Feather Falling
Ring, rare (requires attunement)
When you fall while wearing this ring, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling.
Ring of Free Action
Ring, rare (requires attunement)
While you wear this ring, difficult terrain doesn’t cost you extra movement. In addition, magic can neither reduce your speed nor cause you to be paralyzed or restrained.
Ring of Invisibility
Ring, legendary (requires attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can turn invisible as an action. Anything you are wearing or carrying is invisible with you. You remain invisible until the ring is removed, until you attack or cast a spell, or until you use a bonus action to become visible again.
Ring of Jumping
Ring, uncommon (requires attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can cast the jump spell from it as a bonus action at will, but can target only yourself when you do so.
Ring of Mind Shielding
Ring, uncommon (requires attunement)
While wearing this ring, you are immune to magic that allows other creatures to read your thoughts, determine whether you are lying, know your alignment, or know your creature type. Creatures can telepathically communicate with you only if you allow it.
You can use an action to cause the ring to become invisible until you use another action to make it visible, until you remove the ring, or until you die.
If you die while wearing the ring, your soul enters it, unless it already houses a soul. You can remain in the ring or depart for the afterlife. As long as your soul is in the ring, you can telepathically communicate with any creature wearing it. A wearer can’t prevent this telepathic communication.
