on. It takes 10 minutes for these changes to complete.
At the end of every 10 minutes you spend concentrating on the spell, you can choose a new area of terrain to affect.
Because the terrain’s transformation occurs slowly, creatures in the area can’t usually be trapped or injured by the ground’s movement.
This spell can’t manipulate natural stone or stone construction. Rocks and structures shift to accommodate the new terrain. If the way you shape the terrain would make a structure unstable, it might collapse.
Similarly, this spell doesn’t directly affect plant growth. The moved earth carries any plants along with it.
Nondetection
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (a pinch of diamond dust
worth 25 gp sprinkled over the target, which the spell consumes) Duration: 8 hours
For the duration, you hide a target that you touch from divination magic. The target can be a willing creature or a place or an object no larger than 10 feet in any dimension. The target can’t be targeted by any divination magic or perceived through magical scrying sensors.
Pass without Trace
2nd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V, S, M (ashes from a burned leaf of
mistletoe and a sprig of spruce) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A veil of shadows and silence radiates from you, masking you and your companions from detection. For the duration, each creature you choose within 30 feet of you (including you) has a +10 bonus to Dexterity (Stealth) checks and can’t be tracked except by magical means. A creature that receives this bonus leaves behind no tracks or other traces of its passage.
Passwall
5th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action

Range: 30 feet Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sesame seeds) Duration: 1 hour
A passage appears at a point of your choice that you can see on a wooden, plaster, or stone surface (such as a wall, a ceiling, or a floor) within range, and lasts for the duration. You choose the opening’s dimensions: up to 5 feet wide, 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. The passage creates no instability in a structure surrounding it.
When the opening disappears, any creatures or objects still in the passage created by the spell are safely ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the surface on which you cast the spell.
Phantasmal Killer
4th-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can see within range and create an illusory manifestation of its deepest fears, visible only to that creature. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target becomes frightened for the duration. At the end of each of the target’s turns before the spell ends, the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 4d10 psychic damage. On a successful save, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 4th.
Phantom Steed
3rd-level illusion (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: 1 hour
A Large quasi-real, horselike creature appears on the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice within range. You decide the creature’s appearance, but it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away from the steed.
For the duration, you or a creature you choose can ride the steed. The creature uses the statistics for a riding horse, except it has a speed of 100 feet and can travel 10 miles in an hour, or 13 miles at a fast
