Power Word Kill
9th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
You utter a word of power that can compel one creature you can see within range to die instantly. If the creature you choose has 100 hit points or fewer, it dies. Otherwise, the spell has no effect.
Power Word Stun
8th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
You speak a word of power that can overwhelm the mind of one creature you can see within range, leaving it dumbfounded. If the target has 150 hit points or fewer, it is stunned. Otherwise, the spell has no effect.
The stunned target must make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a successful save, this stunning effect ends.
Prayer of Healing
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: 30 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see within range each regain hit points equal to 2d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the healing increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
Prestidigitation
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action Range: 10 feet Components: V, S Duration: Up to 1 hour
This spell is a minor magical trick that novice spellcasters use for practice. You create one of the following magical effects within range:

• You create an instantaneous, harmless sensory effect, such as a shower of sparks, a puff of wind, faint musical notes, or an odd odor.
• You instantaneously light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a small campfire.
• You instantaneously clean or soil an object no larger than 1 cubic foot.
• You chill, warm, or flavor up to 1 cubic foot of nonliving material for 1 hour.
• You make a color, a small mark, or a symbol appear on an object or a surface for 1 hour.
• You create a nonmagical trinket or an illusory image that can fit in your hand and that lasts until the end of your next turn.
If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its non-instantaneous effects active at a time, and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.
Prismatic Spray
7th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self (60-foot cone) Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Eight multicolored rays of light flash from your hand. Each ray is a different color and has a different power and purpose. Each creature in a 60-foot cone must make a Dexterity saving throw. For each target, roll a d8 to determine which color ray affects it.
1. Red. The target takes 10d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
2. Orange. The target takes 10d6 acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
3. Yellow. The target takes 10d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
4. Green. The target takes 10d6 poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
5. Blue. The target takes 10d6 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
6. Indigo. On a failed save, the target is restrained. It must then make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the spell ends. If it fails its save three times, it permanently turns to stone and is subjected to the petrified condition. The successes and failures don’t need to be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind.
